	 Hearts: More cash from fans may be required, says administrator 

     
         
 
								
				
				
							 

			    
                               Hearts may ask fans for more funds if the club runs out of money before the end of the season, according to administrator Bryan Jackson. 

  
               
A company voluntary arrangement was approved in principle  

     at a meeting of some of the club s creditors on Friday.

  
               But Jackson needs to acquire the majority shareholding from UBIG, 
    
a process likely to take several months  

    , and only has funds to last until March.

  
                There s nowhere else for me to go if we run into difficulties,  he said.

  
                We ll just have to take that as we go. The cash flow is fluent, it can change. 

  
     
	 
				 
		    





	 
		 We do have funds, on the face of it, to get to the end of February into March 
	 


	 Administrator Bryan Jackson 
        



		 
		
		 
			 

                We ve had a couple of plusses because of the Cup games [against Hibernian and Celtic]. 

  
                Maybe we ll get another, plus with a bit of luck but you can also get minuses, depending on how things happen; it s very fluid.

  
                We do have funds, on the face of it, to get to the end of February into March. That s the timescale we initially worked to and we have to see what happens after that. 

  
               Supporters rallied to help the stricken Edinburgh club when they entered administration in June, season ticket sales exceeding the target set by administrators.

  
               And 
    
preferred bidder, fans  group Foundation of Hearts  

    , offered creditors £2.5m towards debt of about £30m at Friday s summit.

  
               
UBIG, who are in the process of being liquidated in Lithuania  

    , abstained from the CVA vote.

  
     
   

   

               And the investment firm are expected to hold a creditors meeting in January, after which it will become clear whether the majority shareholding in Hearts can be released to Jackson and FoH. 

  
                I ve got to convince them that the shares essentially have no value in terms of the club being in administration with a massive amount of debt,  explained Jackson.

  
                But, of course, we require them for technical purposes; the purposes of the CVA, but they ll have to be convinced that that s correct and they ll have to satisfy their own creditors.

  
                In some respects it s a big obstacle and it s a difficult one to predict because we re dealing with different legislation, a different country and different administrator, who has their own duties, their own obligations to their creditors and their court.

  
                If we don t get the deal done at all for the shares then, unfortunately, everything collapses. That s the reality of it.

  
                We just have to do everything we can at our end as quickly as we can and just hope that we get there as quickly as possible. 

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hearts CVA offer agreed in principle
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 29 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                




		


    	

	
	 
     Watch video                                                         Hearts finish line in sight - Murray
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 29 Nov 2013 
		
			 Scotland 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                




		


    	

	
	 
     Watch video                                                         Spring before Hearts clear - Jackson
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 29 Nov 2013 
		
			 Scotland 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Delay for Hearts rescue hopes 
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 28 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Liquidator for Hearts parent company
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                         Progress  in Hearts sale process
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 22 Oct 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hearts fans  group progress with bid
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 15 Aug 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Get Inspired: FOOTBALL
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 19 Jul 2013 
		
			 Get Inspired 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/25156354