	 Hull owner Assem Allam: Critics  can die as soon as they want 

     
         
 
								
				
				
							 

			    
                               Hull owner Assem Allam has told fans  they can die as soon as they want  in response to protests about his plans to change the club s name.

  
               Allam, who 
    
took over  

     in 2010, infuriated some supporters with his idea to rebrand the club Hull Tigers.

  
               The Hull fans have formed a campaign group called 
    
City Till We Die.  


  
               But Allam 
    
told the Independent:  

      They can die as soon as they want, as long as they leave the club for the majority who just want to watch good football. 

  
     
	 
				 Hull history 
				 
		
		 
		               Formed in 1904, they first wore black and amber shirts for their maiden Football League campaign the following year. They moved to their KC Stadium home, which they share with Super League side Hull FC, in 2002, after 56 years at Boothferry Park

  

		 
			 

               The 74-year-old Egypt-born businessman, who moved to Hull in 1968, first 
    
announced in August  

     the company name had changed from Hull City AFC to Hull City Tigers, ending a part of the Yorkshire club s name which has been in effect since their formation in 1904. 

  
               Allam later stated a Tigers brand would be more marketable, and considered the word  City  to be  lousy  and  common . 

  
               A number of supporters protested during the game against Crystal Palace last week by unfurling a banner which read  We are Hull City .

  
               But the owner added:  How can they call themselves fans, these hooligans, this militant minority, when they disturb and distract the players while taking away the rights of others to watch the football, and of companies who have paid good money for advertising? 

  
               City Till We Die hit back at Allam s remarks.

  
                Thankfully, hooliganism at football in this country is now exceedingly rare,  the group said in a statement. 

  
                The intemperate suggestion that singing  City Till I Die  or holding a banner with Hull City s name on it constitutes disorder is ill-informed, unhelpful and will be considered by many to be offensive.

  
                We reiterate our advice to all City fans to continue their fine support for our fantastic team while positively expressing a preference for our current name. 

  
               When Hull were relegated from the Premier League in 2010 they were thought to be approximately £35m in debt but Allam insists he will walk away from the club immediately if the criticism of his proposals continues.

  
     
		 Continue reading the main story 	




	 
		 You can't say what this guy says, it is just improper 
	 


	 Phil Brown 
         Former Hull City manager 


	 
                I m a simple man,  added Allam.  Do they want me to stay? If it s,  No thank you , fine, in 24 hours the club is for sale, I do not put in one more pound and hopefully things happen quickly. 

  
               The owner has already 
    
offered to refund  

     season ticket holders who are unhappy with the name changes.

  
               Phil Brown, who managed Hull in the Premier League during three years in charge at KC Stadium, told the BBC s Match of the Day Extra programme:  It s a strange atmosphere at the stadium.

  
                You expect excitement in the Premier League and there is not that in the air, just animosity.

  
                The owners do not understand the heritage in this country, they need to understand the needs of the fans. 

  
                You can t say what this guy says, it is just improper.

  
                Steve Bruce has to prepare for a Premier League game and now has to manage the guy above him. He knows in his heart of hearts Dr Allam has said the wrong thing.

  
                The supporters kept the club in the Premier League. Without them there was no chance of us surviving in that season. 

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hull offer refunds to unhappy fans
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 20 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hull 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hull chief dismisses fans  protests
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 12 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hull 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hull chief confirms name change plan
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 12 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hull 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Follow the Premier League with the BBC
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 16 Aug 2013 
		
			 Football 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Get Inspired: FOOTBALL
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 19 Jul 2013 
		
			 Get Inspired 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/25174266