	 Blackberry shakes up senior management 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Blackberry once dominated the smartphone market but has struggled recently 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Blackberry abandons sell-off plan 

		 


											




	


	





	 Blackberry seeks to calm customers 

		 


											




	


	





	 Blackberry hits out at Gartner claim 

		 


											 
	 
                       Struggling smartphone maker Blackberry has shaken up its top management as part of its on-going reorganization.  
         The firm s chief financial officer, Brian Bidulka, will be replaced by James Yersh who has previously served as controller and head of compliance. 
         The chief financial officer and chief operating officer will leave the firm with no replacements announced. 
         This comes just weeks after the firm appointed a new interim chief executive as it shelved a plan to sell itself. 
         Blackberry named John Chen as the interim chief executive officer (CEO) as it announced it had abandoned a planned sale to its biggest shareholder, Fairfax Financial Holdings. 
         The management changes are the first major move made by Mr Chen. 
   'Working more closely' 
	       Blackberry once dominated the smartphone market, but has seen its fortunes dwindle in recent years,  
         It has been hurt by the success and popularity of smartphones launched by rivals such as Apple and Samsung. Its attempts to boost its market share have not yielded the desired results.  
         In September, it reported a net loss of $965m (£597m) for the second quarter, blaming poor sales of its new smartphone, the Z10. 
         The firm has also announced a plan to cut 4,500 jobs, or 40% of its workforce, to reverse the giant losses. 
         Mr Chen  said the management changes  were aimed at refining the company s strategy  to ensure we deliver the best devices, mobile security and device management .  
         I look forward to working more directly with the talented teams of engineers, and the sales and marketing teams around the world to facilitate the BlackBerry turn-around and to drive innovation,  he added. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
