


By Marina Lopes and Antoni Slodkowski NEW YORK/TOKYO  Dec 1 (Reuters) - U.S. airlines United
, American and Delta, have
notified Chinese authorities of flight plans when traveling
through an air defense zone Beijing has declared over the East
China Sea, following U.S. government advice. The zone has raised tensions, particularly with Japan and
South Korea, and is likely to dominate the agenda of a visit to
Asia this week of U.S. Vice President Joe Biden. He will travel
to Japan, China, and South Korea and try to ease tensions,
senior American officials said. However, China's declaration of the zone also represents a
historic challenge by the emerging world power to the United
States, which has dominated the region for decades. China published co-ordinates for the zone last weekend. The
area, about two-thirds the size of the United Kingdom, covers
most of the East China Sea and the skies over a group of
uninhabited islands at the center of a bitter territorial
dispute between Beijing and Tokyo. Beijing wants all foreign aircraft passing through the zone,
including passenger planes, to identify themselves to Chinese
authorities. On Friday, the United States said it expected U.S. carriers
to operate in line with so-called notices to airmen issued by
foreign countries, although it added that the decision did "not
indicate U.S. government acceptance of China's requirements." A spokesman for Delta Airlines said it had been complying
with the Chinese requests for flight plans for the past week.
American and United said separately that they were complying,
but did not say for how long they had been doing so. Airline industry officials said the U.S. government
generally expected U.S. carriers operating internationally to
comply with notices issued by foreign countries. In contrast, Japanese carriers ANA Holdings and
Japan Airlines have flown through the zone without
informing China, under an agreement with the Tokyo government.
Neither airline has experienced problems. The airlines said they were sticking with the policy even
after Washington's advice to its carriers. Any sign that the United States was even tacitly giving a
nod to China's air defense zone would disturb Tokyo, which is
hoping for a display of solidarity when Biden visits Japan
starting on Monday. "We will have in-depth talks about it," Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe was quoted as saying by Japan's Kyodo news
agency. "Japan and the United States will address it in close
co-ordination with each other." However, he also insisted that the United States had not
advised its airlines to comply with Chinese demands for prior
notice before their planes enter the new air defense zone. "We have confirmed through diplomatic channels that the U.S.
government didn't request commercial carriers to submit flight
plans," he was quoted as saying in the Kyodo report. And Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera insisted the allies
were working in lockstep. "I believe the U.S. government is taking the same stance as
the Japanese government," he said in an interview with public
broadcaster NHK. Separately, Japan's foreign affairs ministry said it had
raised China's declaration of the air defense zone with the
International Civil Aviation Organization, the international
aviation regulatory body and an agency of the United Nations. It wasn't immediately clear what Japan wanted the agency to
do, since it can make no more than non-binding recommendations.
But Japan's action puts the issue before a global and
multi-lateral body. Since the zone came into force there has been no impact on
the safe operation of international civilian flights, China's
Foreign Ministry said on Thursday. Still, China "hoped" airlines
would co-operate, the ministry said. The United States, Japan and South Korea have defied the
Chinese move by flying military aircraft, including giant U.S.
B-52 bombers, through the zone without informing Beijing. A U.S. official said China's action appeared to be a
unilateral attempt to change the status quo in the East China
Sea, which could "increase the risk of miscalculation,
confrontation and accidents". "We urge the Chinese to exercise caution and restraint, and
we are consulting with Japan and other affected parties
throughout the region," the official said. China scrambled jets on Friday after two U.S. spy planes and
10 Japanese aircraft, including F-15 fighters, entered the zone,
China's state news agency Xinhua said. The jets were scrambled
for effective monitoring, it quoted air force spokesman Shen
Jinke as saying. The Chinese patrol mission, conducted on Thursday, was "a
defensive measure and in line with international common
practices," Shen said, according to Xinhua. "China's air force is on high alert and will take measures
to deal with diverse air threats to firmly protect the security
of the country's airspace," he said. However, Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said it was
"incorrect" to suggest China would shoot down aircraft which
entered the zone without first identifying themselves. U.S. flights were "routinely" transiting the zone, U.S.
officials said on Friday. "These flights are consistent with long standing and well
known U.S. freedom of navigation policies," Pentagon spokesman
Colonel Steve Warren said. "I can confirm that the U.S. has and
will continue to operate in the area as normal." A U.S. defense official said routine operations included
reconnaissance and surveillance flights. STRAINED TIES Underlining concern in Seoul over China's move, a defense
spokesman said officials were reviewing the country's existing
air defense zone, but there was no set plan on whether or not to
expand it. It already overlaps with China's new zone in a block
20 km by 115 km, the spokesman said. Ties between China and Japan have been strained for months
by the dispute over the islands, called the Diaoyu by China and
the Senkaku by Japan. Mutual mistrust over military intentions and what China
feels is Japan's lack of contrition over its brutal occupation
of parts of China before and during World War Two have added to
tension. Although Washington takes no position on the sovereignty of
the islands, it recognises Tokyo's administrative control and
says the U.S.-Japan security pact applies to them. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/XGKE9IsRFIw/story01.htm