

* HSBC final PMI for Nov suggests China manufacturing stable 
* Dollar moves away from 6-month high vs. yen; euro firm * Nikkei slips from last week's nearly six-year closing high * Thai stocks skid as political tensions remain high By Lisa Twaronite TOKYO, Dec 2 (Reuters) - Asian shares edged lower and the
dollar gave up some of its recent gains on Monday, as investors
cautiously awaited key U.S. data this week but took heart from a
decent reading on China manufacturing. China's factory activity maintained steady growth momentum
in November, boosted by resilient new orders, though the pace of
expansion eased slightly from October, the HSBC/Markit
Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) showed. The final PMI reading came in at 50.8 in November, down from
50.9 in October but improving from a preliminary reading of
50.4. "The data broadly says that things are stabilising in China
and there's probably less downside risk to prices," said Thomas
Lam, chief economist at DMG  &  Partners Securities in Singapore.
"But I don't think it foreshadows significant pick-up from here
into next year," he said. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan
 was down about 0.2 percent, paring losses after
the PMI survey. One regional standout underperformer was Thailand, where the
SET index tumbled more than 1 percent as anti-government
protesters vowed to forge ahead with a "people's coup" campaign
to topple Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Japan's benchmark Nikkei shed about 0.4 percent. Last month, the Nikkei rallied 9.3 percent, spurred by
strong earnings and a weakened yen. The index hit its highest
closing level in nearly six years on Thursday. Data released on Monday showed Japanese companies raised
spending on factories and equipment in the July-September
quarter. However, the slow pace of the increase cast some doubt
on whether capital spending is as strong as needed to help
sustain economic growth. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said capital
expenditure will likely increase as a trend, though he warned in
a speech to business leaders on Monday that overseas
uncertainties were among key risks for the BOJ to meet its
target of 2 percent inflation in about two years. The BOJ's commitment to ultra-easy monetary policy as it
shoots for this goal has kept pressure on the yen, though it
held its ground on Monday. The dollar slipped about 0.1 percent to 102.35 yen,
moving away from a six-month high of 102.61 yen touched on
Friday. Against the dollar, the euro was slightly higher at $1.3601
, while the dollar index, which tracks the U.S.
unit against a basket of major rivals, lost 0.2 percent to
80.553. The euro added about 0.1 percent against its Japanese
counterpart to 139.22 yen, moving back toward
Friday's five-year high of 139.70 yen. "The dollar finished November at its highest level against
the yen since May. It appears to have broken out of the six
month consolidative pattern," Marc Chandler, global head of
foreign exchange strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman, said in a
research note. While the 140-yen area could mark psychological resistance
for the euro, the 141-yen level could be more significant from a
technical perspective, Chandler said, as it represents 61.8
percent retracement of the euro's slide from 170 yen in 2008 to
the 2012 low around 94 yen. PAYROLLS IN FOCUS U.S. data later in the week remains a key focus, with the 
Federal Reserve poised to reduce its stimulus as soon as it
deems the economy is strong enough. Nonfarm payrolls for November is scheduled for release on
Friday, with economists expecting an increase of 185,000 jobs
last month, down from 204,000 in October, according to a Reuters
survey of economists. Other major economic indicators due this week include the
Institute for Supply Management's data on the U.S. manufacturing
and services sectors. The ISM factory index will be released
later on Monday, and the ISM services index is due on Wednesday. In commodities trading, gold  was down about 0.5
percent at $1,246.26 an ounce, undermined by concern that signs
of a stronger U.S. economy could compel the Fed to reduce its
stimulus. Gold has lost around a quarter of its value so far
this year, on track to post its first annual loss in 13 years. Copper shed about 0.3 percent to $7,030.75 a tonne
as expectations for a swelling market surplus next year offset
any cheer from the China PMI survey. Copper lost 2.7 percent in
November. Brent crude oil gained about 0.5 percent to $110.25
a barrel, lifted by the China data, after it shed more than $1
on Friday. U.S. crude was about 0.4 percent higher at
$93.12 as traders weighed supply outages in Libya against U.S.
inventory levels. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/b659M0MaIYA/story01.htm