	 BT apologises for  poor service  at sports channel launch 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Complaints surged after BT Sport was launched in August 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 BT Sport users reach two million 

		 


											




	


	





	 BT wins £897m Champions League deal 

		 


											




	


	





	 BT launches sports TV channels 

		 


								 
	 
                       BT has apologised to its customers after what it called its  poor service  during the launch of BT Sport in August. 
         It followed figures that showed complaints about BT s television service more than doubled in the July-to-September period.  
         Telecoms regulator Ofcom said complaints peaked in August, when the new channel went on air. 
         As a result, BT had a far higher ratio of complaints than its rivals. 
         Ofcom said the biggest problems were service issues, and the way the company handled complaints. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
We accept that we failed to reach the high standards that customers expect 
End Quote 
	 BT spokesperson 
	

		        BT said some customers were confused by the fact that BT Sport was initially free on BT TV, but was subsequently encrypted. 
         It said the number of complaints represented a fraction of 1% of its customers. 
         We are disappointed with the result, and we accept that we failed to reach the high standards that customers expect,  a BT spokesperson said. 
         Between July and September the number of complaints to BT rose to 0.56 for every thousand customers. 
         That is more than double the 0.26 per thousand recorded in the previous quarter. 
         In contrast, Virgin Media had just 0.05 complaints per thousand customers for its pay TV service. 
         Sky continued to have the lowest number of complaints, at 0.02 per thousand. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25366097#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa