	 RSA shares fall as much as 18% as chief Simon Lee quits over Irish woes 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     RSA said it had seen an increase in motor injury claims 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 RSA Insurance shares plunge 11% 

		 


								 
	 
                       Shares in RSA Insurance Group fell 18% in early trading after the firm s chief executive, Simon Lee, resigned amid deepening problems at its Irish unit. 
         RSA said he would leave the group with immediate effect. 
         Last month, RSA suspended the head of its Irish unit, Philip Smith, who later resigned, after alleged accounting irregularities were discovered. 
         RSA has now said the unit s reserves will need to be strengthened by a further £130m. 
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 RSA Insurance Group  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 13 Dec 2013, 11:27 ET  
		
			 
				 *Chart shows local time 
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						92.80
						p 
						 				
							 - 
							 -6.90 					
						 
						 		
							 - 
							 -6.92 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       The majority of this was to cover an increase in bodily injury claims in the motor insurance sector, it said. 
         This is in addition to the £70m previously announced on 8 November relating to claims and finance issued in Ireland,  the firm said  in a statement . 
         It added that strengthening its Irish reserves and last week s storms in Europe would hit the group s earnings for this year and possibly reduce dividends. 
         We now expect mid-single digit group return on equity in 2013,  it said. 
         RSA told the BBC that the insurance industry as a whole in Ireland had recently seen an increase in compensation claims for injuries such as whiplash sustained in car accidents, but could not say whether such claims were legitimate or fraudulent. 
         Andrew Bailey, chief executive of the UK s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), stressed that there was no need for RSA policyholders to be concerned. 
         He told the BBC:  We re watching the firm very closely, the board is watching the firm very closely. You can see the board is taking action. There s no threat to RSA policyholders. 
   Problems 'isolated' 
	       RSA, which owns the More Than brand, said that until it could find a permanent replacement for Mr Lee, Martin Scicluna would become executive chairman. 
         Mr Scicluna said Mr Lee had  felt it was in the best interests of the group that he step down to enable a change in leadership . 
         The problems in Ireland were discovered after a routine audit, but RSA has not given details about what happened. 
         Mr Lee said last month that RSA was  extremely disappointed with the issues which have been identified and their financial impact on the group . 
         But he maintained that the problems were  isolated to the Irish business  and that  no policyholders have been affected . 
         Analyst Eamonn Flanagan of Shore Capital said that the share price fall could make RSA vulnerable to a takeover bid. 
         Too strong a negative reaction is likely to deliver an opportunistic bid for the group, in our view,  he added. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25362379#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa