	 Bus driver-magistrates  point way to working class participation 

     
         
 
    
    
					            	    		 			 
														 By Ed Lowther 
				 Political reporter, BBC News 
			 
		
         
   

   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




		


	





	 Getting more working class MPs  Listen 

		 


											




	


	





	 Fair  MPs  intern scheme begins 

		 


											




	


	





	 Working class MP  shortlist call 

		 


								 
	 
                       Urgent action is needed to boost working class participation in public life, including the expansion of a scheme which saw bus drivers working as magistrates, a think tank has said.  
         A  report by Policy Exchange  also argued for more manual workers serving as school governors and on NHS bodies.  
         It is shameful that working class communities are being excluded,  report author Michael Pinto-Duschinsky said.  
         Employees have the right to ask for time off for various public duties.  
         But there is no obligation on their employers to pay them while they are off work, in contrast to statutory holiday entitlement.  
         The prevailing rhetoric of diversity tends to be skewed,  the report said.  It rightly promotes the case for gender and ethnic equality but fatally neglects social equality. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Diversity in the Commons 
		 
	 
   

   

	 
	 
      MPs from ethnic minority backgrounds up from 4 in 1987 to 27 in 2010 
      Female MPs up from 19 in 1979 to 143 in 2010 
      But former manual workers in the Commons down from 98 in 1979 to 25 in 2010 
   
	 
	        Dr Pinto-Duschinsky explained:  It is vital for a functioning democracy that all its citizens are represented in public life, no matter their background, colour or gender.  
         Action to encourage individuals in manual occupations should not be in the form of quotas or statistical  targets .  
         Rather, there should be special schemes to help those in manual occupations to apply for roles and to persuade employers to grant time off to carry out public duties. 
   'Unique opportunity' 
	       The report praised bus company Go-Ahead London and the Magistrates Association for teaming up to encourage bus drivers to become magistrates.  
         Being a magistrate is unpaid, although expenses and some allowances are available from public funds.  
         But the company pays staff in full for time taken off during normal working hours to be a magistrate, and now benefits from  more well rounded and experienced  employees who were more loyal and had higher morale, the report said.   
         The magistracy offers a unique opportunity for the judiciary to engage with those in routine and manual occupations, or the  traditional working class , as magistrates are volunteers and do not need to achieve legal qualifications or a particular career level,  it added. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Time off work for public duties 
		 
	
	 
	       With some exceptions, full-time employees are entitled to a  reasonable  amount of time off to work in the following roles. Employers can choose to pay them for this time, but there is no legal obligation on them to do so. 
   
      Magistrate  
      Local councillor 
      School governor 
      Member of a statutory tribunal (eg employment tribunal) 
      School governor 
      Member of a health authority 
      Prison monitor/visitor 
      Trade union activist 
   
	 
		 
			 Full details at gov.uk 
		 
	        It also praised campaign group Operation Black Vote s Magistrates Shadowing Scheme, established in 2001, which it said had aimed  to redress the balance between those who are subject to the courts and those who are represented within it .  
         The report concluded:  It is strongly recommended that similar schemes are organised to encourage individuals from manual occupations, regardless of race, gender and disability, to put themselves forward for positions as magistrates, members of employment tribunals, school governors and other similar public roles. 
         It said major employers needed to get behind schemes to involve working class people involved in public life.  
         This is because workers who become magistrates need agreement from their employers to take the necessary time off from their work,  it added. 
         Against the background of public expenditure cuts, there will be limits on the amount of public funding that can be expected for organisations carrying out such initiatives.  
         It is not the intention that initiatives with a focus on those in manual occupations should substitute for those that focus on women, minority ethnic groups and the disabled. They should be additional to them. 
   'Flourish' 
	       Employers organisation the CBI has recently called for an extension of the right to time off work to be a school governor.  
         It s such a fundamentally important issue that business is happy to extend the obligation for firms to release staff for governor duties to be widened to academies and free schools,  Neil Carberry, CBI director for employment and skills policy, said.  
         In response to the proposals in the Policy Exchange report, he added:  Many employers do effectively pay for that time by leaving salaries unchanged, but it has to be voluntary, as many smaller firms couldn t afford to pay. 
         Labour MP for Salford and Eccles Hazel Blears, who launched a scheme in 2011 designed to recruit paid parliamentary interns from poorer backgrounds, said:  Everyone should have the same opportunities in life, regardless of where they come from. 
         She said she had seen the participants in her intern scheme, which is supported by MPs from both sides of the House,  really flourish .  
         The kind of initiatives suggested in this report could enable many more working class people to apply for public office,  Ms Blears concluded.  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-25363168#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa