	 Peugeot shares fall as General Motors sells its shareholding 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The third Dongfeng Peugeot Citroen Automobile factory in Wuhan was officially opened in July. 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Global Car Industry 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Ford to hire 11,000 workers in 2014 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Australia PM holds Toyota talks 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Jaguar Land Rover invests in Brazil  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 In pictures: Ford Mustang 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       Shares in PSA Peugeot Citroen have fallen more than 11% after General Motors sold the 7% stake in the French carmaker that it bought last year. 
         However, the US carmaker insisted that its industrial partnership with Peugeot was strong. 
         Peugeot, hit hard during the global downturn, is pursuing a tie-up with China s Dongfeng Motor Group. 
         On Thursday, Peugeot took a 1.1bn-euro ($1.5bn; £0.9bn) write-down on its struggling overseas operations. 
         Peugeot and Dongfeng are in talks about extending their existing Chinese partnership to other Asian markets, backed by a share issue in which the French state and Dongfeng would take matching stakes in Peugeot. 
         The French carmaker said discussions were at  preliminary stage , with no guarantee of a successful conclusion. 
         Asked on a French radio station on Friday if the state would take part in the capital increase, French Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg said:  I cannot answer your question. Will the question arise? Without doubt. But for now, let the companies discuss between themselves. 
         He added:  The red line is that PSA will remain French. That is our position. 
         Representatives of the French government, Peugeot and Dongfeng met Chinese officials in late November. 
         Some analysts have speculated that GM s sale of its stake is part of a deal to pave the way for the Dongfeng agreement. 
         GM bought its stake in Peugeot in February last year, aiming to develop a global alliance that would see them develop cars together. 
         The stake made GM the second biggest shareholder in the French firm after the Peugeot family. 
         The two have been sharing knowledge in engineering development and design. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25362490#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa