	 Jaguar Land Rover confirms Brazil car factory plans 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The Evoque is one of JLR s best-selling models in Brazil 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Land Rover Defender production ends 

		 


											




		


	





	 Inside Jaguar Land Rover s huge factory  Watch 

		 


								 
	 
                       Jaguar Land Rover has confirmed plans to build a car plant in Brazil capable of producing 24,000 vehicles a year. 
         The UK car company had been in talks about the project with authorities in Rio de Janeiro for months. 
         JLR, the luxury car unit of India s Tata, said that it would invest £240m (750m reais) in the factory, which would begin production in 2016. 
         JLR, which is also building a plant in China, is targeting the new rich in emerging economies. 
         Dr Ralf Speth, chief executive of JLR, said:  Brazil and the surrounding regions are very important. Customers there have an increasing appetite for highly capable premium products. 
         JLR s sales in Brazil for the first ten months of 2013 have increased by more than 40% to 9,549 vehicles. The company s best-selling models in the country are the Range Rover Evoque, Freelander and Discovery 
         Producing cars locally means JLR will avoid Brazil s high import tariffs. Nor does JLR have to form a partnership with a Brazilian company, as it had to in China. 
         As part of its joint venture in China with the Chery Automobile Company, JLR is building a manufacturing plant at Changshu. 
         Tata bought Jaguar and Land Rover in 2008 and has won plaudits for the way it has re-established the two prestige marques.  
         In September, JLR announced plans to create 1,700 jobs at its plant in Solihull in the UK as part of a £1.5bn investment to expand its product range. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25247483#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa