	 Ford to hire 11,000 workers in US and Asia in 2014 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Among the new cars Ford will introduce in 2014 is a revamped Mustang 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Global Car Industry 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Peugeot shares fall on GM share sale 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Australia PM holds Toyota talks 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Jaguar Land Rover invests in Brazil  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 In pictures: Ford Mustang 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       Ford has announced plans to hire 11,000 workers in the US and Asia in 2014 as part of a global expansion plan. 
         Ford intends to launch 23 new vehicles around the world next year, more than double the number released in 2013. 
         The company says it will be the fastest expansion in 50 years, and includes the new Lincoln MKC and all-new Transit family of commercial vehicles. 
         About 5,000 workers will be hired in the US and 6,000 in Asia, where Ford is opening two plants in China next year. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
The last time Ford was growing like this, Dwight D. Eisenhower was the US president 
End Quote 
	 John Fleming 
	 Executive vice president, Ford global manufacturing 

		        The recruitment drive represents an increase of close to 7% of Ford s total workforce and is the biggest hiring push the firm has made since 2000. 
         Ford s president of the Americas, John Hinrichs, made the announcement at an event introducing a new research vehicle testing driverless technology. 
         Among Ford s new offerings in 2014 are a revamped Mustang sports car, which is  celebrating its 50th anniversary  next year, and a Lincoln MKC small utility. 
         This is the fastest and most aggressive manufacturing expansion the company has undergone in 50 years,  said John Fleming, executive vice president, Ford global manufacturing. 
         The last time Ford was growing like this, Dwight D. Eisenhower was the US president. 
         Next year, Ford is due to open its Changan Ford Assembly Plant and Changan Transmission Plant in Chongqing, China, as well as Camacari Engine Plant in Brazil. 
         The new Chongqing Assembly Plant will increase the company s production capacity in China by 300,000 units next year. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25359896#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa