	 General Motors to withdraw Chevrolet brand from Europe 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     General Motors will continue to sell  iconic  marques, such as Chevrolet Corvette Stingray 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Global Car Industry 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Jaguar Land Rover invests in Brazil  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Renault-Dongfeng in $1.3bn venture 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Venezuela: Maduro fixes car prices 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 In pictures: Ford Mustang 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       General Motors, the US car giant, has said it plans to withdraw its Chevrolet brand from Europe and concentrate more on its Opel and Vauxhall brands. 
         The withdrawal will begin from 2016, the company said. 
         Chevrolet would no longer have a  mainstream presence  in the region, largely thanks to  the difficult economic situation , GM said. 
         But  iconic vehicles , such as the Corvette, would continue to be sold and it would retain a presence in Russia. 
         In 2012, Chevrolet sold 195,000 cars and SUVs (sport utility vehicles) in western and central Europe, followed by a further 137,000 in the first 10 months of 2013. 
         But it has been losing money in the region, where a mature and saturated car market, coupled with a fragile economy, has stifled growth. 
         GM chief executive Dan Akerson said the decision would  allow us to focus our investments where the opportunity for growth is greatest . 
         This meant focusing on Opel and Vauxhall and expanding its Cadillac brand in Europe, he said. 
         Europe is a key region for GM,  he added. 
         Most of the Chevrolet models sold in Europe are produced in South Korea.  
         GM said it would focus on profitability, cost management and maximising sales throughout its Korean operations. 
   Buoyant UK market 
	       While the car market in continental Europe may be stagnating, the picture in the UK seems markedly different. 
         New car registrations rose 7% in November to 159,581 units, the month s best performance since 2004, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) reported. 
         More than 2.1 million cars have been registered in the year-to-date, up 9.9% and already ahead of 2012 s full-year figure. 
         The SMMT is forecasting 2.25 million registrations for 2013. 
         Chief executive Mike Hawkes said the figures represented  a tremendous success for the industry . 
   Ford's global ambitions 
	 
   

     Ford boss Alan Mulally unveiled the company s new Mustang at an event in New York 
   
       Meanwhile, GM s competitor, Ford, unveiled its latest Mustang sports car. 
         Mustangs have not been officially available to overseas buyers since 1979. But in a departure from tradition, Ford said it was a  world car  that would be made available in Europe and China. 
         The car, which celebrates its 50th anniversary next year, is what is known  as a  halo car  - meant to lure car buyers to the Ford brand if not to a Mustang in particular. 
         Although other iconic US sports cars, like GM s Corvette, have not found much success overseas, analysts are optimistic that the Mustang could appeal to Chinese buyers in particular. 
         The Chinese have a good feeling about American vehicles and Ford s doing extremely well in China,  Edmunds.com senior analyst Michele Krebs told the BBC. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25237227#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa