	 Firefighters  to walk-out in latest pensions strike 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Firefighters to strike over pensions 

		 


											




	


	





	 Firefighters to go on strike again 

		 


											




	


	





	 Firefighters stage latest strike 

		 


																	 
	 
                       Firefighters in England and Wales will stage a four-hour strike later as part of an ongoing dispute over pensions. 
         Fire Brigades Union (FBU) members will walk out from 18:00 GMT and will do the same on Saturday, with the threat of more strikes early next year. 
         Ministers plan to raise firefighters  retirement age from 55 to 60 and increase their pension contributions. 
         The government has said pensions remain  generous , but the FBU said it could not let ministers   hypocrisy  stand. 
         Firefighters have already held four strikes in recent months over the changes, which the FBU said could lead to older staff being sacked or having their pensions reduced. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
If you're out drinking on Friday or Saturday, it's much safer to grab a kebab or some chips than trying to cook under the influence 
End Quote 
	 Commissioner Ron Dobson 
	 London Fire Brigade 

		 'Ludicrous proposals' 
	       FBU general secretary Matt Wrack said:  It s now been almost two months since the government has been willing to meet us for negotiations despite several invitations from us. 
         Until they do and until they start to actually resolve the dispute, we ll keep up the pressure for the sake of public safety and our members  pensions. 
         He said in light of  plans to raise MPs  salaries by 11% , anger at the government s  unworkable, unaffordable and unfair  proposals would be  even greater . 
         No firefighter wants to strike, but we cannot allow the government s ludicrous proposals, and outright hypocrisy, to stand,  he said. 
   
   

     The FBU said it would  keep up the pressure  on the government 
   
       London Fire Brigade, which will deploy 27 fire engines to deal with emergencies during the strikes, urged party-goers not to try cooking after a night out. 
         Commissioner Ron Dobson said:  If you re out drinking on Friday or Saturday, it s much safer to grab a kebab or some chips than trying to cook under the influence. 
         Fire service minister Brandon Lewis has said the strikes  contradict  the FBU s claim that it wants to resolve the dispute through negotiation, and  further damages the good reputation of firefighters . 
         Firefighters will still get one of the most generous public pension schemes,  he said. 
         In a letter to Mr Wrack last month, Mr Lewis said improving the terms offered to firefighters  would be unfair to taxpayers and other public sector workforces . 
   
                         Are you a firefighter? Will you be taking part in the strike? You can send us your comments using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-25360154#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa