	 Diesel fuel filter problems targeted in probe 

     
         
 
    
    
					            	    		 			 
														 By Kevin Core 
				 You and Yours, Radio 4 
			 
		
         
   

     No single car has been associated with the filter problems 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Fuel price calculator 

		 


											




	


	





	 US prices fall 0.1% in October 

		 


											




	


	





	 Inflation falls to 2.2% in October 

		 


								 
	 
                       The fuel and motor industry is investigating a spike in the number of problems affecting diesel fuel filters. 
         Failure of the part, which screens out dust and dirt, can lead to power loss and cost hundreds to replace. 
         BBC Radio 4 s You and Yours  found that groups representing fuel companies and motor manufacturers had been compiling details of the problems. 
         In a joint statement, they said the issues had not been limited to one area and no conclusions had been drawn. 
         Oxfordshire-based Jon Harvey suffered a problem with the fuel filter in his Citroen C3 VTR while overtaking on a dual carriageway. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
We are actively investigating the situation 
End Quote 
	 UK Petroleum Industry Association and Society of Motor Manufacturer 
	

		        Following a loss of power, he was initially told the problem was due to  waxing , caused by diesel more suitable for summer being used in winter, but then discovered temperatures had most likely not been cold enough to be the cause. 
         He said:  I put my foot on the accelerator and it suddenly cut out.  
         The mechanic said it looks like your fuel filter has got clogged and we re going to have to replace it - it cost me £160 to fix. 
         The reports that the industry is looking at are distinct from the Diesel Particulate Filter or DPF, which cuts emissions from engines, but needs to be  cleaned out  by regularly travelling at higher speeds for longer periods. 
         The Downstream Fuel Association, which represents organisations throughout the supply chain, from storage to the forecourt, said it was also involved. It added the investigation was open to all lines of inquiry and it was premature to draw any firm conclusions at this stage. 
         The UK Petroleum Industry Association and the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders said:  We are aware that motorists in some parts of the UK have experienced incidences of diesel fuel filter blocking problems.  
         There is no pattern in fuel retail outlet, age, type or brand of vehicle, or the age of the filter affected.  
         We are actively investigating the situation, through British Standards Institution, to achieve a swift resolution and limit any inconvenience to affected customers. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25234840#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa