	 China in $1.3bn Renault-Dongfeng auto joint venture 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     An electric car made by China s Dongfeng motor group on display in Shanghai 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Global Car Industry 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Jaguar Land Rover invests in Brazil  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 GM withdraws Chevrolet from Europe 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Venezuela: Maduro fixes car prices 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 In pictures: Ford Mustang 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       China has approved a joint venture worth some 7.76 billion yuan ($1.27bn; £778m) between its second-largest car maker, Dongfeng Motor Group, and French car manufacturer, Renault.  
         The new venture plans to build 150,000 vehicles and engines a year. 
         China is the largest car market in the world and Renault is one of the few big car makers that does not yet have a facility there.  
         The 50-50 joint venture will be called Dongfeng Renault Automotive Co Ltd.  
         Dongfeng is state-owned and has existing partnerships with Honda and Nissan, amongst others.  
         Renault s joint venture with the Chinese giant will see it enter a crowded marketplace filled with competitive local brands.  
         While car sales in Western countries have been waning, Chinese sales have been growing. 
         Official figures showed vehicle sales rising by 4.3% in 2012 to 19.3m. 
         Under Chinese trade laws, foreign carmakers looking to launch manufacturing operations in China must have a local partner. 
         Approval was granted for the new venture between Renault and Dongfeng by China s National Development and Reform Commission. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25227877#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa