	 Autumn Statement: Overseas home owners to pay tax on UK property sales 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Foreign property owners will have to pay capital gains tax on rises in value on UK properties 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Autumn Statement 2013 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 The plan is working, says Osborne 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What it means for your finances 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 At-a-glance: Autumn Statement 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Analysis: Old age pensions 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Foreign property owners will pay tax on any gains in value on UK properties they own, under changes to capital gains tax announced by the chancellor. 
         Under the current system, only second home owners who are UK residents pay the tax, which is typically levied at 28%, on any rise in value when they sell a property. 
         The Chancellor, George Osborne, said the current system was  not right . 
         The tax change will come into effect  from April 2015.  
         The move had been expected after the Deputy Prime Minister, Nick Clegg, said last month that the government was considering the change,  
         The new tax follows fears that foreign buyers of second homes are contributing to a housing bubble in London, where property prices are rising far faster than in the rest of the country. Values have risen by more than 10% in a year.  
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Download the documents 
		 
	 
   

   
PDF download  Full Autumn Statement documents [2.33MB] 
	 
	       Most computers will open PDF documents automatically, but you may need Adobe Reader 
  
	 
		 
			 Download the reader here 
		 
	        Wealthy buyers from countries such as Russia and China have been buying properties in London as a base for their visits to the UK. 
         Others from the eurozone have also bought as a hedge against any break up of the single currency area. 
         Mr Osborne said:  Britain is an open country that welcomes investment from all over the world, including investment in our residential property.  
         But it s not right that those who live in this country pay capital gains tax when they sell a home that is not their primary residence - while those who don t live here do not. 
   'Wrong signals' 
	       Estate agent Savills estimates that as much as 70% of newly built properties in central London are bought by foreign investors. 
         Paul Hackett, director of left-leaning think tank The Smith Institute, said the move was an attempt by the government to hold back prices in the capital. 
         This shows that the government is worried about a London housing bubble, and it is vital that the extra funds raised from overseas investors will be ploughed back into genuinely affordable housing for people on low incomes,  he said. 
         However, some said it would make no difference. Jennet Siebrits, the head of residential research at property experts CBRE, said:  The introduction of this tax may provide the wrong signals to overseas investors, and be seen to discourage their investment into UK property. 
         However, while it might cause some disruption at the time of implementation, we do not believe this will have a substantial long-term detrimental effect on the wider residential market. 
   Time limit change 
	       A further policy announcement on housing shortens the length of time a homeowner has to sell their main residence after they move out. 
         This was welcomed in one quarter as something that could help ease the supply of property. 
         Currently a home owner has three years in which to sell their main residence after having moved out, before suffering any capital gain tax charge.   
         The changes announced reduce this period to 18 months from April 2014.  
         Chris Harris, at accountancy firm MHA MacIntyre Hudson, said:  Many Housing Charities would favour this change as it is likely to free up housing stock more quickly.   
         However, he said that that caution would need to be exercised where a person moved into a care home for a period of time, as if their home was retained for longer than 18 months they would incur an unexpected tax charge. 
  	

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25219129#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa