         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/12/2013 @ 10:38AM
             | 2 views
     
		 Novice Head Coach Jason Kidd Needs To Let His Assistants Be Frank 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Lawrence Frank was one the head coach of the New Jersey Nets (Wikipedia) 
   
 
 
 
The business lessons that come from pairing a novice No. 1 guy with a more-qualified No. 2? There’s a good chance it won’t work out, especially if the No. 2 has aspirations to be a top dog again. And the failed experiment can be expensive.  
The Brooklyn Nets are looking lost both on the court and on the sidelines during the season’s early going, limping along with a 7-14 record while their coaching staff sits in disarray after head coach Jason Kidd banished his $6 million assistant, Lawrence Frank from the bench and from the practice floor over “philosophical  differences.”   
One of the great point guards of all time, Kidd was a cerebral player who saw the whole floor and always seemed to be mentally a step ahead of everyone else. In other words, the type of player you would figure to make a good coach someday. Kidd’s sudden hiring by the Nets, though, less than a month after his final playoff game as a New York Knicks’ guard, was surprising. The club’s offseason acquisitions of veterans  Paul Pierce  and  Kevin Garnett  to go with some solid pieces already in place hitched it to “win now” mode, complete with a league-leading $103 million payroll. Not the typical place for a rookie coach to grow into the job.   
And so Kidd lobbied for Frank, an experienced guy who has done two stints as an NBA head coach, as a right hand man he could lean on during his transition from the court to the bench. The Nets obliged, making Frank the NBA’s highest paid assistant with a six-year contract at $1 million per year.   
The problem: Frank isn’t the hoops version of Dick Cheney, a man who was happy to play the old sage to the less-experienced George W. Bush because he was uninterested in pursuing the presidency himself. Though he’s been coaching in the NBA since 1997, Frank is still just 43 years old. He must know that he’s better at the coaching game than Kidd is, at least right now, making it tough to accept the secondary roll.  Now, the experiment is up in smoke. Frank has been demoted to what could be called the NBA’s all-time highest paid intern, making notes and writing reports that Kidd allegedly reads. He’s got a lawyer to help him negotiate a contract buyout.  
None of the principals are saying much publicly, of course. But management expert Andy Teach, a corporate veteran and author of the book From Graduation to Corporation, says the onus mostly falls on Kidd. As the top man, it’s his job to communicate the respective roles in order to turn a potentially awkward situation into one that works.  
“You need to get the issue out there, tell him ‘we’re a team, I need your help, how are we going to work this?’,” Teach says. While the No. 2 always needs to be aware that the No. 1 needs to feel respected, he should be able to vent his disagreements. A good boss will accept the disagreements and learn something from them, not get defensive. “He needs to be strong enough to take criticism and be willing to make changes.” In some businesses, the need for change at all can often be questioned. In sports, you’re measured immediately by wins and losses.  
Follow Me on Twitter  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomvanriper/2013/12/12/novice-head-coach-jason-kidd-needs-to-let-his-assistants-be-frank/