         

         


         
             Lifestyle 
         
         | 
     
        12/12/2013 @ 9:55AM
             | 182 views
     
		 Cameron Diaz Drops $9 Million On New York City Condo 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Diaz’s new NYC condo. Image via Trulia 
 
 

  
   Cameron Diaz 
 
Cameron Diaz has just dropped $9 million on a swanky new pad in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York City .  
Diaz is currently in contract on a condo located in the chic, upscale Walker Tower – where the penthouse just sold for an impressive $55 million. Diaz’s new Big Apple apartment has 3-bedrooms, 3.5-bathrooms, a home office and Southeast exposures with views of iconic NYC landmarks including the Statue of Liberty and Freedom Tower.  
The living space has views galore and the master suite boasts coveted southeastern views and offers abundant closet space. The second and third bedrooms both have en suite bathrooms. Diaz’s apartment also features a large laundry/utility room and tons of closet space.  
Additional amenities of the 3,022-square foot residence include custom-designed features, including tilt-and-turn windows, lighting, marble and limestone countertops.  
An insanely luxe kitchen features Dornbracht fixtures and includes a refrigerator, wine cooler and under-counter refrigerator/freezer drawers by Sub-Zero, an induction cooktop, wall oven and warming drawer by Viking, speed oven and built-in coffee maker by Miele and a Franke water filtration system.  
Additionally, this residence is fully pre-wired and includes a built-in humidification system, an ultra-quiet central air conditioning system, as well as a dedicated ventilation system.  
Aside from the sky-high purchase price, Diaz will now have to shell out $2,745 a month in HOA fees for building amenities, which includes a 24-hour doorman, concierge, library lounge with pantry and bar, refrigerated storage for deliveries, children’s playroom, bike storage room, fitness center with yoga room, sauna and landscaped common roof deck with dining area, sun lawn, observation area and covered cabana room.  
In addition to her new New York City purchase, Diaz owns three more luxury properties, all on the West Coast. Combined, her property portfolio’s value exceeds $20 million.  
In the period between May 2011 and May 2012, Diaz earned an impressive $34 million , landing her at #59 on the  Forbes Celebrity 100 in 2012 .  
See more images of  Diaz’s New York City condo on Trulia Luxe Living . 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/trulia/2013/12/12/cameron-diaz-drops-9-million-on-new-york-city-condo/