


* German coalition pact boosts euro; stocks edge higher * Euro at four-year high vs yen, near one-month high vs
dollar * Nasdaq composite index closes over 4,000 for second
straight day NEW YORK, Nov 27 (Reuters) - Agreement on a German coalition
government pushed the euro to a four-year high against the yen
on Wednesday and buoyed stocks around the world, already well
bid on central bank liquidity. The long-awaited coalition pact between German Chancellor
Angela Merkel's conservatives and the center-left Social
Democrats was sealed early on Wednesday, paving the way for a
government to be sworn in by the end of the year. U.S. stocks were little changed to up slightly, with
investors finding few reasons to buy before Thursday's U.S.
Thanksgiving holiday and benchmark indexes near historic highs.
The benchmark Nasdaq index did manage to close above 4,000 for
the second straight day. "There won't be any news that will move stocks but there is
a general bias in equity markets to move higher," said John
Rutledge, chief investment strategist for Safanad, a New York-
based private investment firm. "There is not much action," he said. "People are putting
their turkeys into the oven." The Dow Jones industrial average added 24.53 points,
or 0.15 percent, to end at 16,097.33. The Standard  &  Poor's 500
Index was up 4.48 points, or 0.25 percent, at 1,807.23.
The Nasdaq Composite Index was up 27.00 points, or 0.67
percent, at 4,044.75. Hewlett-Packard lifted the tech sector a day after the
company's better-than-expected earnings. 
. Details of the new German government's policies were sparse
but included raising the minimum wage and increasing pensions,
which should help boost activity in Europe's largest economy. The deal must still be voted on by SPD members, but ending
the political stalemate has amplified the positive tone in
equity markets set by expectations the super-loose monetary
policies of major central banks would continue into next year. The euro peaked at 138.80 yen, its best level
since June 2009, and came close to a one-month high of $1.3612
against the dollar. The MSCI world equity index was up 0.2 percent on the day to
just over 400 points, close to a level it last
reached at the end of 2007. Europe's main stock markets all edged higher on the news of
Germany's grand coalition, helped by solid earnings from Belgian
discount grocer Colruyt. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 rose 0.5 percent,
taking its year-to-date gains to around 14.4 percent and keeping
it on track for its best year since 2009. Wall Street has soared this year, largely on expectations of
continued stimulus from the Federal Reserve. Both the Dow 
and S  500 have risen more than 20 percent in 2013,
hitting a series of all-time highs, while the Nasdaq on
Tuesday closed above 4,000 for the first time since 2000. ECB READY TO ACT Signs that the European Central Bank could move early to
implement fresh measures to support the struggling euro zone
economy and tackle deflationary pressures were also growing,
though inflation data on Friday is expected to show a small
pick-up. German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported on Wednesday
that the central bank was considering a new long-term liquidity
operation, which would be available only to banks that agreed to
use the funding to lend to businesses. The report follows a string of comments by ECB policymakers
in the past week that they stood ready to act. However, many see
next week's ECB policy meeting as coming too soon after the bank
earlier this month cut rates to a record low. Debt markets showed little reaction to the developments.
German Bund futures slipped 12 ticks to 141.58 . The benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note was
down 12/32, the yield at 2.7391 percent. Markets generally
ignored lower weekly U.S. jobless benefit claims and data
showing weakness in factory activity and business spending
plans. ASIA TENSES Outside Europe, tensions rose over Beijing's demands that
airlines inform it when they plan to fly over disputed islands
in the East China Sea. The United States flew two unarmed B-52
bombers over the islands, while ANA and Japan Airlines 
stopped sending Chinese authorities their flight plans for
routes that pass through the zone. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan
 rose 0.1 percent. Shares in Japan weakened 0.4
percent to slip further from a six-month peak touched on Monday
. In commodities trading, U.S. light sweet crude oil 
fell $1.41, or 1.51 percent, to $92.27 per barrel after oil
industry group American Petroleum Institute reported a
6.9-million-barrel rise in crude oil inventories, far more than
the 600,000 barrels expected by analysts. Brent edged 62
cents highter to $111.50. 

FILED UNDER:   
