	 Amazon workers face  increased risk of mental illness 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Online retailer Amazon employs more than 20,000 people across its eight warehouses during its peak Christmas season 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




		


	





	 Amazon  will convert many temp jobs  Watch 

		 


											




	


	





	 Amazon creates 1,500 seasonal jobs 

		 


											




	


	





	 Union holds protests at Amazon sites 

		 


								 
	 
                       A BBC investigation into a UK-based Amazon warehouse has found conditions that a stress expert said could cause  mental and physical illness . 
         Prof Michael Marmot was shown secret filming of night shifts involving up to 11 miles of walking - where an undercover worker was expected to collect orders every 33 seconds. 
         It comes as the company employs 15,000 extra staff to cater for Christmas. 
         Amazon said the safety of its workers was its  number one priority. 
         Undercover reporter Adam Littler, 23, got an agency job at Amazon s Swansea warehouse. He took a hidden camera inside for BBC Panorama to record what happened on his shifts. 
         He was employed as a  picker , collecting orders from 800,000 sq ft of storage.  
         A handset told him what to collect and put on his trolley. It allotted him a set number of seconds to find each product and counted down. If he made a mistake the scanner beeped. 
         We are machines, we are robots, we plug our scanner in, we re holding it, but we might as well be plugging it into ourselves , he said. 
   
   

     Adam Littler went undercover as a  picker  at Amazon s Swansea warehouse 
   
       We don t think for ourselves, maybe they don t trust us to think for ourselves as human beings, I don t know. 
         Prof Marmot, one of Britain s leading experts on stress at work, said the working conditions at the warehouse are  all the bad stuff at once . 
         He said:  The characteristics of this type of job, the evidence shows increased risk of mental illness and physical illness. 
         There are always going to be menial jobs, but we can make them better or worse. And it seems to me the demands of efficiency at the cost of individual s health and wellbeing - it s got to be balanced.   
         Amazon said that official safety inspections had not raised any concerns and that an independent expert appointed by the company advised that the picking job is  similar to jobs in many other industries and does not increase the risk of mental and physical illness . 
         The scanner tracked Mr Littler s picking rate and sent his performance to managers. If it was too low, he was told he could face disciplinary action.  
         When Mr Littler worked night shifts his pay rose from the daily rate of £6.50 per hour to £8.25 per hour.  
   
   

     Amazon said the safety of its employees was its  number one priority 
   
       After experiencing a ten-and-a-half-hour night shift, he said:  I managed to walk or hobble nearly 11 miles, just short of 11 miles last night. I m absolutely shattered. My feet are the thing that are bothering me the most to be honest. 
         Amazon said new recruits are warned some positions are physically demanding and that some workers seek these positions as they enjoy the active nature of the work. The company said productivity targets are set objectively, based on previous performance levels achieved by the workforce. 
         Those on the night shift work a four-day week with an hour s break per shift. 
         Experts have told Panorama these ten-and-a-half-hour night shifts could breach the working time regulations because of the long hours and the strenuous nature of the work. 
         Barrister Giles Bedloe said:  If the work involves heavy physical and, or, mental strain then that night worker should not work more than eight hours in any 24-hour period.  
         But Amazon said its night shift is lawful. They said they sought expert advice to ensure the shifts  comply with all relevant legal requirements . 
         Amazon said it had invested £1bn in the UK and created 5,000 permanent jobs. 
         It added that it relied on the good judgement of thousands of employees. The company said:  Together we re working hard to make sure we re better tomorrow than we are today. 
                         Panorama: The Truth Behind The Click, BBC One, Monday 25 November at 20:30 GMT and then available in the UK on the  BBC iPlayer . 
   
                         Are you a warehouse employee? Send us your comments and experiences using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
