	 HS2: Biggest ever bill goes before Parliament 

     
         
 
    
    
					            	            	    		 			 
												 
											 By Richard Westcott 
				 BBC transport correspondent 
			 
		
         
	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 HS2 rail link 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Heseltine: HS2 can  rebalance  UK 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 MPs to quiz minister over HS2 report 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 HS2 benefit to UK revised down 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 HS2 contracts for local firms call 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       The legislation allowing the government to build a high-speed rail line between London and Birmingham is to go before Parliament. 
         The HS2 bill and supporting material stretch to 49,814 pages in all. 
         The bill details, almost down to the last blade of grass, exactly what ministers would like to build. 
         The bulk of the bill is dedicated to the impact the first phase of HS2 will have on the environment. 
         This includes all those ancient woodlands and areas of scientific interest. 
         Hundreds of copies are being distributed along the route, both as hard copies and as files on computers, so that people can go into their local library or to their parish council and see exactly what s planned. 
   
   

   
       A special committee will be set up to hear from many of those who will be directly affected by the line. And, eventually, MPs will vote.  
         The current plan is to get it all done before the next general election in 2015. Many assume the deadline will slip because of the sheer scale of the project. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Did you know? 
		 
	
	 
	       The total length of the bill and supporting material is 49,814 pages 
         The Woodland Trust has employed someone just to read the new HS2 bill  
         It has 56 days to respond and the aim is to get 890 pages read a day 
         The Trust estimates the weight of the document to be more than a tonne, the equivalent of a small car 
  
	 
	        If MPs do pass the bill, it gives the government the power to start buying up houses and land regardless of whether the owner wants to sell. There s a long way to go before we will know for sure whether this controversial line will ever be built.  
         Right now, Labour shadow chancellor Ed Balls could hold the key. He has openly questioned whether it is worth £43bn, or £50bn including trains.  
         For now, the project still has vital, cross-party support, but, if that wavers, HS2 could be dropped. 
   Cost 
	       The government s most recent business case for the HS2 high-speed rail link slightly lowered the amount of benefit it predicts relative to the cost. 
         The expected benefit-cost ratio has fallen to £2.30 from £2.50 in benefits for every pound spent. 
         That fall is mainly due to a £10bn rise in the scheme s projected £42.6bn cost, which was added earlier this year.  
         It also has revised an earlier assumption that business people do not get much work done on trains, a view that was widely criticised at the time.  
         A study, prepared by Network Rail and the management consultancy Atkins for the government, said that without the project, there would have to be 2,770 weekend closures on the East Coast, West Coast and Midland main lines to increase the capacity to cope with demand in the future. 
         This could lead to travel times between London and Leeds doubling. 
   
   

   


	 
  
   
 	 
