	 Price comparison sites to be investigated over deals 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Fourteen price comparison websites are to be reviewed 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Consumer Rights 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Gift cards and voucher warning 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 How to avoid huge roaming costs 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Watch scams among con comebacks 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Christmas shopping rights and you 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Price comparison websites (PCWs) are to be investigated by the financial services regulator to see if customers are being misled.  
         The Financial Conduct Agency (FCA) said it was looking at whether certain deals were being promoted above others. 
         The watchdog will also investigate if a focus on price leads consumers towards deals which fail them when they come to claim from their insurance company. 
         The FCA said there was no suspicion of deals being misrepresented. 
         The review of 14 PCWs will question company heads about  whether the customer or profit is really at the heart of a business model , and survey site users to find out how they browse.  
   Best deal 
	       BBC business correspondent Joe Lynam said about 40% of all car insurance and a quarter of home insurance policies are bought online using price comparison websites which provide an easy to follow overview of the best prices on the market.  
         He said the watchdog, which took over from Financial Services Authority this year, was concerned too many customers were buying insurance based on price alone and were not checking they had the correct amount of cover they needed. 
         FCA spokesman David Cross said:  Price isn t necessarily the best marker of an insurance deal.  
         It s all very well getting the cheapest insurance cover, but when you come to claim, if you find out that you can t, then obviously that money s been spent for nothing. 
         The financial watchdog said it would investigate if some PCWs were owned by insurers creating a conflict of interest.  
         It will also look at whether consumers are  misled into purchasing products or add-ons which do not meet their needs . 
         Mr Cross said:  When someone searches for something, are they necessarily getting the best deal for them, or are they just getting the deal the website wants to give them? 
   'Valuable service' 
	       A  risk review in early 2013  highlighted the risk that firms relying on automated comparison algorithms to serve millions at low cost might not be able to properly scrutinise their own practices. 
         But the FCA stressed PCWs  perform a valuable service for millions of people  and said almost half of all internet users had used them to research motor insurance, with four in five going on to buy it through the same site. 
         The regulator has powers to force changes in adverts and promotions or to issue fines in the most serious cases. 
         Clive Adamson, the FCA s director of supervision, said:  We ve all used a price comparison website, so we know how simple they make buying motor, travel or home insurance.  
         We don t want to lose that convenience, but we do need to ask the question,  does cheapest equal best? 
         We want to get to a place where consumers that use these sites buy with the confidence knowing that they have all the relevant facts. 
   'Completely independent' 
	       One PCW, MoneySupermarket, said it was an independent company with no ties to insurance groups. 
         It said:  MoneySupermarket gives customers the information they need to save money on the products that suit them. If a policy doesn t offer breakdown insurance, for example, we ll show the extra cost of that. 
         Customers have different needs; nearly half our customers do not buy the cheapest product on the market and prefer to select on features or brand. 
         The company said it received no commissions for its services, simply receiving a flat fee every time a customer buys a policy, and that these fees are  completely independent  of policy price. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
