

BRUSSELS  Dec 13 (Reuters) - The following are mergers under
review by the European Commission and a brief guide to the EU
merger process: 
APPROVALS AND WITHDRAWALS -- German aluminium firm Trimet Aluminium AG and French
utility EDF to take control of two aluminium plants in
France from Rio Tinto Alcan Group (approved Dec. 13) -- U.S. property consultancy CBRE Group Inc to buy
British company Norland Holdings Ltd (approved Dec. 13) -- Japanese building products company Lixil Group 
and the Development Bank of Japan to acquire an 87.5 percent
stake in German bathroom fittings company Grohe Group (approved
Dec. 13) -- German refrigeration compressor maker Secop GmbH, owned
by German private equity company Aurelius, to acquire Austrian
industrial company ACC Austria GmbH (approved Dec. 11) NEW LISTINGS None EXTENSIONS AND OTHER CHANGES None FIRST-STAGE REVIEWS BY DEADLINE DEC 18 -- Airport ground and cargo services handler Swissport,
which is owned by private equity company PAI Partners, to
acquire Servisair from French company Derichebourg SA 
(notified Oct. 29/deadline extended to Dec. 18 from Dec. 4 after
Swissport offered concessions) DEC 19 -- Private equity firm New Mountain Capital to acquire a
fund from management services provider Alexander Mann Solutions
(notified Nov. 14/deadline Dec. 19/simplified) -- China National Petroleum Corp to acquire a stake in a
Russian Arctic project called the Yamal LNG project which is
jointly controlled by Russia's Novatek and France's
Total (notified Nov. 14/deadline Dec. 19/simplified) DEC 20 -- Spanish telecoms provider Telefonica to buy
Dutch peer KPN's German unit (notified Oct. X/deadline
extended to Dec. 20 from Dec. 6 after Germany's antitrust
authority asked to review the deal) -- Canadian real estate developer Brookfield Property
 and investment firm Starwood Capital Group Global to
acquire joint control of 13 hotels in Germany (notified Nov.
15/deadline Dec. 20/simplified) -- Austevoll Seafood ASA and investment company Kvefi, which
is controlled by private investment firm Kverva AS, to set up a
joint venture (notified Nov. 15/deadline Dec. 20) DEC 23 -- French insurer Axa and Norway's Norges Bank to
acquire joint control of SZ Tower in Munich, Germany (notified
Nov. 18/deadline Dec. 23/simplified) -- German building supplies wholesaler Cordes  &  Graefe to
acquire French construction supplier Pompac (notified Nov.
18/deadline Dec. 23) -- Danish pension fund PensionDanmark Holding to acquire a
49 percent stake in gas pipeline operator Noordgastransport from
Abu Dhabi-based energy company TAQA, giving it joint
control with French utility GDF Suez (notified Nov.
18/deadline Dec. 23/simplified) -- Private equity firms ARX CEE III LP and Darby Converging
Europe Fund III to jointly acquire Gramex 2000 Kereskedelmi
Korlatolt Felelôssegü Tarsasag and G.F. Investment 
Korlatolt Felelossegu Tarsasag which own beverage producers and
distributors (notified Nov. 18/deadline Dec. 23/simplified) -- Private equity firms Bridgepoint Adviers Group Ltd and
Orlando Italy Management to acquire joint control of Italian
beauty products distributor La Gardenia Beauty, which is now
solely controlled by Orlando Italy Management (notified Nov.
18/deadline Dec. 23/simplified) -- Private equity firm TPG and U.S. car parts and home
products retailer Servco Pacific Inc to buy Fender Musical
Instrument (notified Nov. 18/deadline Dec. 23/simplified) -- Bulgarian flag carrier Bulgaria Airways Group EAD to
acquire joint control of airport ground services handler
Swissport Bulgaria, which is now solely owned by airport ground
services handler Swissport (notified Nov. 18/deadline Dec.
23/simplifid) -- Spain industrial group Corporacion Gestamp and Spanish
bank Banco Santander to set up a joint venture
(notified Nov. 18/deadline Dec. 23/simplified) JAN 3 -- Germany industrial companies Rheinmetall and
Ferrostaal Industrieanlagen GmbH to set up two joint ventures
(notified Nov. 19/deadline Jan. 3/simplified) -- Venetos Holding AG, which is a subsidiary of Russian
investment vehicle Renova Industries, to acquire sole control of
Swiss steelmaker Schmolz+Bickenbach AG (notified Nov.
19/deadline Jan. 3) JAN 8 -- Italian energy group ENI to acquire British oil
and gas operator Liverpool Bay from BHP Billiton Petroleum Great
Britain Ltd  (notified Nov. 22/deadline Jan.
8/simplified) -- Private equity firm Apollo to acquire debt recovery and
real estate services company Altamira from Spanish bank Banco
Santander (notified Nov. 22/deadline Jan. 8/simplified) JAN 9 -- Danish agricultural cooperative DLG to acquire German
energy and building materials company Team (notified Nov.
25/deadline Jan. 9/simplified) --  U.S. advertising company Omnicom Group Inc and
French peer Publicis Groupe SA to merge (notified Nov.
25/deadline Jan. 9) JAN 13 -- Japanese technology company NTT Data Corp to
acquire consultancy Everis Participaciones (notified Nov.
27/deadline Jan. 13/simplified) Jan 14 -- South African IT services company Dimension Data, which
is a subsidiary of Jpaan's Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp
, to buy IT services units belonging to Nextiraone
(notified Nov. 28/deadline Jan. 14/simplified) JAN 15 -- Investment bank Goldman Sachs, private equity
company TPG Lundy and British bank Barclays to acquire
joint control of British pub operator Intertain (notified Nov.
29/deadline Jan. 15/simplified) JAN 22 -- Swiss specialty chemicals group Clariant and
Saudi Arabia's National Industrialisation Company (Tasnee) to
form a joint venture (notified Dec. 6/deadline Jan.
22/simplified) JAN 23 -- Danish energy company SEAS-NVE Am.b.a to acquire 80
percent of Danish windfarm operator E.ON Vind Sverige AB from
German utility E.ON (notified Dec. 9/deadline Jan.
23/simplified) -- Swedish pension fund Sixth AP Fund to buy 45 percent of
Finnish mobile phone accessories maker Salcomp Oyj 
from Swedish investment company Nordstjernan AB (notified Dec.
9/deadline Jan. 23/simplified) -- Russia's Lukoil to buy Austrian energy group
OMV's lubricants business (notified Dec. 9/deadline
Jan. 23/simplified) -- Private equity firm Hellman  &  Friedman to acquire online
marketplace provider Scout 24 (notified Dec. 9/deadline Jan.
23/simplified) -- Czech investment group PPF Group to buy Spanish telecoms
provider Telefonica's Czech business and Telefonica
Czech Republic's subsidiary Telefonica Slovakia (notified Dec.
9/deadline Jan. 23/simplified) MARCH 10 -- Swiss cement maker Holcim to buy some of
Mexican peer Cemex's assets in Germany  
(notified Sept. 3/dateline extended to March 10 from Oct. 22
after the Commission opened an in-depth investigation into the
deal) MARCH 21 -- Switzerland-based INEOS and Belgian chemicals company
Solvay to form a joint venture (notified Sept.
16/deadline extended for the second time to March 21 from Nov. 5
after the European Commission opened an in-depth investigation) MARCH 24 -- Hutchison 3G UK to acquire Telefonica Ireland,
a unit of Spanish telecoms provider Telefonica 
(notified Oct. 1/deadline extended to March 24 from Nov. 6 after
the European Commission opened an in-depth investigation) MARCH 31 -- Swiss cement maker Holcim to buy German peer
Cemex West from Mexicam company Cemex (notified
Sept. 3/dateline extended to March 31 from Nov. 12) GUIDE TO EU MERGER PROCESS DEADLINES: The European Commission has 25 working days after a deal is 
filed for a first-stage review. It may extend that by 10 working
days to 35 working days, to consider either a company's proposed
remedies or an EU member state's request to handle the case. Most mergers win approval but occasionally the Commission 
opens a detailed second-stage investigation for up to 90 
additional working days, which it may extend to 105 working 
days. SIMPLIFIED: Under the simplified procedure, the Commission announces the
clearance of uncontroversial first-stage mergers without giving
any reason for its decision. Cases may be reclassified as
non-simplified -- that is, ordinary first-stage reviews -- until
they are approved. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/tgJqArHBn-k/story01.htm