	 US budget deal agreed in Congress 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Senator Patty Murray (right) and Congressman Paul Ryan (left) were picked to head a cross-party budget committee in the wake of an October government shutdown 
   
                       A cross-party Congressional budget committee convened after an October government shutdown has reached an agreement to fund federal services. 
         The deal finances the government for two years and reduces the federal deficit by $23b (£14b). 
         It also avoids automatically triggering another government shutdown on 15 January. 
         It  cuts spending in a smarter way,  Republican Congressman Paul Ryan said on Tuesday. 
   'Gridlock' 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
This agreement doesn't include everything I'd like - and I know many Republicans feel the same way 
End Quote 
	 Barack Obama 
	 US President 

		        The budget deal also offsets $63b in previously enacted automatic military and domestic spending cuts triggered in January when Democrats and Republicans failed to reach a budget compromise. 
         Mr Ryan and Democratic Senator Patty Murray, the respective chairs of the House and Senate budget committees, were called on to reach a cross-party budget deal in the wake of October s partial government shutdown over federal spending.  
         We have broken through the partisanship and gridlock,  Ms Murray said of the new deal. 
         Mr Ryan said he was optimistic the new budget agreement could pass both sides of the highly politically divided Congress. 
         The measure is expected to come to a vote before the House recesses for several weeks beginning on Friday. 
         According to the Congressional budget chairs, the new deal does not raise taxes but requires newly hired federal workers to make larger contributions to their pensions. 
         A federal airport security fee adding $5 to the cost of a typical return flight is also included. 
   Nature of compromise 
	       Following the announcement on Tuesday, Republican House Speaker John Boehner called the  modest  cross-party deal a  positive step forward . 
         US President Barack Obama issued a written statement labelling the agreement  balanced  and  designed in a way that doesn t hurt our economy . 
         This agreement doesn t include everything I d like - and I know many Republicans feel the same way. That s the nature of compromise,  he said.  
         But,  because it s the first budget that leaders of both parties have agreed to in a few years, the American people should not have to endure the pain of another government shutdown for the next two years,  he added. 
         Government officials say the deal, totalling an estimated $85b over the next decade, aims to carve $20b out of the nation s $17 trillion debt. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-25327831#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa