         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 11:41AM
             | 1 view
     
		 ARTPOP GOES THE WEASEL - 3 Glimpses into the Deflation of a Superstar 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
 
  
   
    Lady GaGa concert (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
 
In this three part post, we will dissect why  Lady Gaga’s  ARTPOP has underperformed, and what her depreciation says about the current state of the music business.    
Part 1: The Day The Music Died  
A  quick survey of the reviews (critic and fan-based, positive and negative) suggests the following consensus:  ARTPOP  fails to deliver anything new—Lady Gaga has only mashed up as many disparate genres as she could think of and delivered them in clinical, relentless bursts.  
To some extent this is true, but to some extent this has  always  been true: Lady Gaga’s music does not trend towards change.  
If we are to be honest with ourselves, Lady Gaga has roughly four kinds of song in the bank: the insanely catchy number (“Just Dance”), the breakneck dance-a-thon (“Marry the Night”), the tongue-and-cheek catwalk (“Schei e”, “Venus”), and the lone confessional ballad (“Dope”).  
Some of these songs come by way of  Madonna , and some by Nine Inch Nails, but the standard Lady Gaga chorus remains the standard Gaga chorus, whether we speak of “Bad Romance”, “Judas”, or “Aura”. We all know this chorus by heart, and we feel a sense of release when it comes—even in the  middle of a song we don’t necessarily like .  
But here’s the thing: ever since she followed up her first album with (basically) an extended repackaging of her first album, Lady Gaga has successfully masked her musical stagnation with an ever-evolving public persona. More than any contemporary, she has convinced the masses she’s on a never-ending mission to outdo herself while remaining resolutely the same.  
Music critics may have mulled over the redundancies of an EP like The Fame Monster —some excusing the similarities ( Rolling Stone ,  Pitchfork ), some not ( Popmatters ,  Slant )—but audiences overlooked the self-likeness altogether, gobbling up the material in powerful numbers.  
The Fame Monster  charted right on top of its double-disced scion,  The Fame. By 2010 it went platinum, and the following year, so did  Born This Way  (remarkably quickly too, even allowing for  the price-slashing antics of Amazon ). A cultural phenomenon ensued, and very quickly, we found ourselves strong-armed onto Mobius Strip of Warholian proportions—art consuming pop consuming art consuming pop consuming art ad infinitum.  
 
 
  
   
    A Mobius strip – Once you get on, you can never get off… (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
 
But with  ARTPOP , attention has fizzled where it was meant to crystalize. The first week’s numbers were about eight hundred and fifty thousand short of her last outing. One could shrug off these figures (as there was no mass-market price-slashing this time around) but then came week number two, wherein Gaga endured a humiliating sales drop of 81 percent. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Lady Gaga's ARTPOP Pop-Up Store: Art Or Commerce?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Zack O'Malley Greenburg 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Lady Gaga Calls On Fans To Report Song Leaks
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Emma Woollacott 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/nickmessitte/2013/12/13/artpop-goes-the-weasel-3-glimpses-into-the-deflation-of-a-superstar/