         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/12/2013 @ 4:31PM
             | 19,180 views
     
		 Did EA Lie About Battlefield 4? Now Under Investigation 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    8 comments, 8 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
Electronic Arts’ Battlefield 4 problems persist. After all sorts of server and connectivity issues crippled the game experience of one of the company’s biggest titles, EA put everything else on hold to try to fix the game. With no end in sight, the stock is falling and investigators are snooping around to see if EA lied to investors and gamers before Battlefield 4′s release.  
Law firm Holzer, Holzer   Fistel announced that it’s investigating whether EA and its executives “complied with the federal securities laws between July 24, 2013 and December 4, 2013.” More specifically, according to the press release, “The investigation focuses on statements issued during that time regarding the development and sales of the Company’s Battlefield 4 video game and the game’s impact on EA’s revenue and projects moving forward.”  
A quick news search will tell you that Holzer, Holzer   Fistel initiates a lot of investigations into public companies, none of which at first glance appear to have resulted in any actual lawsuit or action. But that doesn’t mean gamers or investors are happy about the continued issues with Battlefield 4. One group bought a video game expecting to be able to play it without problem, the other bought stock expecting returns from a game they didn’t know was broken.  
EA stock fell over 7% last Thursday  on the news that the company would delay future games and expansions from its developer DICE until further notice. EA recovered on Friday, but has slipped another 5.71% this week, with most of the damage coming on Wednesday.  
This despite the fact that EA subsidiary developer DICE rolled out a new patch on Wednesday to improve the game’s stability. Clearly, investors aren’t convinced such measures have fixed the problems, and why would they?  The official bug tracker  still lists many issues as unsolved.  Reportedly , Microsoft has started issuing refunds for the buggy Battlefield 4 Premium service.  
Of further worry may be that EA has permanently damaged its reputation among gamers, which could affect its sales of other games in the future.  
Follow Brian on Facebook and Twitter .  

  Battlefield 4 Screenshots 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Electronic Arts Tanks After Hitting Reset On Battlefield 4
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Brian Solomon 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Electronic Arts Still Expensive After Price Drop
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     David Trainer 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/briansolomon/2013/12/12/did-ea-lie-about-battlefield-4-now-under-investigation/