         

         


         
             Personal Finance 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 10:44AM
             | 73 views
     
		 3 Financial Planners, 3 Budgets: How I Pay For The Holidays 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
By Libby Kane  
We know that December can be a tempting time of year, especially when it comes to overspending.  
Unfortunately, the budget organization principle known as the 50/20/30 rule doesn’t look kindly on temptation.  
The rule says that up to 50% of your monthly budget should be designated for essential expenses, such as rent and groceries. At least 20% should go toward financial priorities—debt payments and retirement savings —that will help you build a strong foundation. And 30% should be allocated for lifestyle choices, including eating out, shopping and charitable giving.  
The problem is that the cash you lay out for your seasonal trappings—whether it’s yards of tinsel, gifts for friends and family or a special treat for yourself—is considered a lifestyle choice, so it’s easy to put a strain on that 30% during the holidays.  
In fact, according to research from Chase Blueprint and AOL , one-third of people plan to get gifts for themselves this year. And those who “totally agree” that self-gifting is important also expect to spend $935 on others—underpinning the need for a carefully thought-out holiday budget.  
Understandably, you may start wondering: Is my spending normal? Of course, everyone’s breakdown is different: The largest chunk of your 30% may go toward gifts, while your neighbor’s pays for super-sized lawn ornaments.  
So to help you better keep your holiday spending in check, we asked three budget pros—LearnVest Certified Financial Planners™—to divulge how they divvy up their own seasonal expenses. Take that, temptation!  
Related : 12 Clever Secrets to Keep Holiday Costs in Check  
 
The 12 Months of Saving  
Natalie Taylor, CFP , Santa Barbara, Calif.  
“Each month, my husband and I put money into our ‘fun’ account, which is meant to cover expenses that don’t fall within our regular budget: expensive nights out , gifts above our $50 monthly present budget, extra travel, spa days and guitars—my husband is a recovering sound engineer who has guitars stashed under every bed! We also put 40% of any windfall into the account. I’d estimate that about 4.5% of our income for November and December will go toward holiday expenses—and the fun account is where we’ll get that money.  
“We celebrate Hanukkah and Christmas, so we make a gift list and designate a budget for each present before the holidays. In fact, my husband and I just cleaned out our garage, selling a bunch of stuff we no longer needed through Craigslist, and I think we’ve made enough to cover that budget!  
“Whenever possible, we also ask family members if they’d be up for donating to charities instead of exchanging gifts, and we’ve suggested that perhaps they could put some money toward our son’s college fund or stuff a $10 bill into his piggy bank.  
“We also don’t exchange gifts with friends or co-workers. If I do want to give a small gift to someone, I’ll make something, like wrapping up some thyme with a note that there’s never enough ‘thyme’ around the holidays.  
“As for entertaining, I spend most of my budget for it early in the holiday season. We host both Thanksgiving and ‘Friendsgiving,’ which is a potluck to help keep costs low, but we provide the turkey, gravy, cranberry sauce, rolls and drinks. For Thanksgiving, we prepare everything, and we had nine people over this year—plus family staying with us for the long weekend, which meant five more mouths to feed.” 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/learnvest/2013/12/13/3-financial-planners-3-budgets-how-i-pay-for-the-holidays/