         

         


         
             Food  &  Drink 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 10:27AM
             | 97 views
     
		 Two More Issues With FDA's New 'Rules' On Antibiotic Use In Livestock 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
In addition to the huge question of if, and how, antibiotic use would decrease on farm as  a result of the FDA’s  new recommendations, two other issues also linger. [See  New FDA 'Rules' Will Not Reduce Antibiotic Use On Farms  for more information]  
First, the recommendations are just that – recommendations, and they are voluntary for industry, a fact that is repeated at the top of every single page of the Guidance (“Contains Nonbinding Recommendations”). Only those companies agreeing to the recommendations would make the suggested changes to their products – and if a company goes against its word, the guidance has no teeth for enforcement.  
To be fair, most of the companies who make “animal health products” will agree to using the recommendations, in large part because they helped write them. Novartis for example, emailed a short and sweet reply to the query regarding their intent to use the recommendations: “We’ll comply with the guidance.”  
Second is the matter of veterinarian involvement.  
Currently,  to issue a VFD , a vet needs to actually have a relationship with a rancher before approving drugs in feed, sort of like having to know your doctor before she prescribes a medication.  
But now with the Guidance, explains Steve Roach of the group  Keep Antibiotics Working  (KAW), FDA’s proposal would drop that requirement and let states decide how much information a vet has to have about the animals before issuing a VFD. “Our concern is that this will greatly undermine any benefits that come from requiring vet oversight,” says Roach.  
Additionally, whether companies will chose to implement VFDs for already approved antibiotics is also not clear.  
Industry says they are ready to adopt the new VFD recommendations.  Elinore White, Senior Director of Corporate Communications at Zoetis, says her company is in agreement with the FDA.  
“We believe that a veterinarian should be involved with food producing animals,” explains White.  “Vets are the best qualified professionals to make these decisions [about antibiotic use] and they will protect not only the animals but also our food supply chain.”  
 




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/bethhoffman/2013/12/13/two-more-issues-with-fdas-new-rules-on-antibiotic-use-in-livestock/