         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 10:09AM
             | 401 views
     
		 Sheldon Adelson Drops Plans To Open Las Vegas Sands In Madrid 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Sheldon Adelson says adios to his Madrid plans 
 
Sheldon Adelson  is saying adios to plans of expanding his massive  Las Vegas Sands   Las Vegas Sands  casino empire to Madrid.  
This morning the  FT reported  that CEO of Las Vegas Sands has cancelled his push to spend $30 billion to open an European outpost for his casino network that spans Las Vegas, Macau, Singapore and Pennsylvania.  
In a press release Adelson said:  

  “As chairman and CEO, my role is not only creating a vision for the company’s future, it is also fulfilling it in a way that best represents the interests of our shareholders. Developing integrated resorts in Europe has been a vision of mine for years, but there is a time and place for everything and right now our focus is on encouraging Asian countries, like Japan and Korea, to dramatically enhance their tourism offering through the development of integrated resorts there.” 
 
Adelson had long shrived to open a Las Vegas-style casino strip in Europe. Yes, the continent faces dire political and economic problems, but it’s still home to a wealthy, densely populated area that is thousands of miles removed from the adult-playgrounds of Las Vegas and Macau.  
Madrid was Adelson’s main focus (outside of the U.S. presidential elections) when I interviewed him the winter of 2012. With the land in China’s gambling Mecca of Macao occupied completely, Adelson saw Europe as LVS’s next growth engine.  “The one that’s in my control is to build a Europa Vegas, to set up the equivalent of half the Vegas Strip that I couldn’t continue to do in Macao,” Adelson had told me. “We believe we have the necessary package of agreements with the government which we need to provide assurance of success,” he claims. “We’re just finalizing the last components…“It will take us four to five years, by then everything will be solved. There are tens of billions to be made.” Now it looks like someone else will have to make them.  
Follow me on Twitter: @Stevenbertoni  

  Sheldon Adelson 
 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Comeback Billionaire: How Adelson Dominates Chinese Gambling And U.S. Politics
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Steven Bertoni 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Sheldon Adelson Says He Is 'Willing To Spend Whatever It Takes' To Stop Online Gambling
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Nathan Vardi 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Sheldon Adelson: Online Gambling Is Fool's Gold
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Steven Bertoni 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenbertoni/2013/12/13/sheldon-adelson-drops-plans-to-open-las-vegas-sands-in-madrid/