         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 10:02AM
             | 34 views
     
		 MLB Votes To Limit Collisions, But Will They Overcomplicate It? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Busted Posey (Photo credit: scomedy) 
   
 
In a case of “it’s about time,” MLB’s Playing Rules Committee  voted to limit home plate collisions .  Whether  Pete Rose running over Ray Fosse  to end the 1970 All-Star game or Scott Cousins nailing  Buster Posey  more recently, cathers have been subjected to serious, sometimes career-influencing injuries from these violent bullfights.  The concerns about concussions that is spreading across sports seems to be the real impetus for the change.  
The underlying reason for the collision is not hard to figure.  Second basemen and shortstops don’t usually jam their foot, shin, knees, or entire bodies between second base and an incoming runner in an explicit effort to prevent the runner from being able to reach the bag.  Why?  Pretty obvious.  Without protective equipment, such tactics would be fast track to a short career.  The catcher’s actions force the runner into a dilemma:  try to get to the plate with a direct slide and run a sizable risk of stopping at the catcher’s shin-guard, try to go around the catcher and risk missing home plate and giving the catcher more time to catch and tag, or try to bull the catcher over.  The absence of this dilemma at second base does not diminish the game.   Few baseball fans are drawn in hopes of seeing collisions.  Football, hockey, rugby,  boxing exist for that purpose.  I enjoy tag plays at second or home, but I really don’t enjoy home plate bullfights.  
Will MLB’s new rules to limit these collisions work?  The simplest rule would be to prohibit catchers from blocking the plate.  In essence, make them act as if they have no protective equipment.  It works at the other bases.  Given the statements by MLB officials about the complexities of crafting effective limits, this simple route appears doubtful.  Instead, they hint more at rules that are going to draw fine lines for what is and isn’t permissible for runners.  The trouble will be that if catchers can block the plate, runners will find it much harder to reach home plate, which will lead to severe criticism. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Are Repeated Concussions Really Killing NFL Football Players?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Alex Berezow 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Why Is Football Participation Declining? The Answer Isn't Concussions
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Bob Cook 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/briangoff/2013/12/13/mlb-votes-to-limit-collisions-but-will-they-overcomplicate-it/