         

         


         
             Leadership 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:44AM
             | 144 views
     
		 The Volcker Rule Makes Us Safer, But Not Safe 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Paul Volcker 
 
Now that a round of mild applause is subsiding for the administration having finally issued regulations for the Volcker Rule, some five years after the 2008 financial crisis, and three years after the Dodd-Frank Act, we need to recognize that the regulations make the financial sector safer, but they don’t make it safe. More important, they don’t deal with root causes of the 2008 crisis. Nor will they make the economy prosperous.  
What is the Volcker Rule?  
The Volcker Rule is the seemingly simple and obvious idea put forward by former Fed chairman Paul Volcker: big banks shouldn’t be gambling with government-insured money. Volcker argued that such speculative activity played a key role in the 2008 financial crisis. His plausible one-sentence notion was duly included in the 2010 Dodd-Frank law. It has now become a  preamble of 892 pages  and  71 pages of complex regulations,  which are scheduled to go into effect April 1, 2014.  
Getting to this point hasn’t been easy. The regulations have been the subject of internal bureaucratic squabbles and fierce lobbying from the banking industry. Most of the provisions cover only the very largest banks–such as JPMorgan Chase [JPM], Bank of America [BAC], Citigroup [GS], Goldman Sachs [GS] and Morgan Stanley [MS], which collectively hold some $10 trillion in assets, equivalent to two-thirds of the US economy. Some provisions also affect organizations such as venture capital funds, credit funds, cash management vehicles and cash collateral pools.  
The regulations are a positive step  
Let’s give the administration some credit. Despite the fierce lobbying, the regulations are stronger than critics expected.  
 
  Neil Barofsky the former special inspector general (and harsh critic) of the TARP program said in an interview in the  Wall Street Journal : “It’s a lot better than people thought it would be. It’s tough on hedging and getting rid of the idea of portfolio hedging,”  
 
 
  Simon Johnson, the former chief economist of the IMF and also a harsh critic of the financial reform effort, writes in the  New York Times :  “The conceptual fight against the Volcker Rule has been lost by the big banks … enough regulators have finally wised up to how the big banks really operate and why that can damage the real economy.”  
 
We are safer, but not safe  
Issuance of the regulations is a milestone, not an occasion for celebration. As Neil Barofsky points out, the regulations make us “safer, but not safe.” A real question is whether they will function as intended.  If banks keep acting as they have, pursuing every opportunity to make money in the easiest and fastest way possible, and merely paying fines when they are caught in wrong-doing, the regulators will be playing a game of  Whac-A-Mole , in which the banks in effect continue gambling with government money and finding new ways to hide it. As Simon Johnson writes,  
“Will there be enough disclosure and observable behavior for either the regulators or people on the outside to see whether the spirit of the Volcker Rule is being followed? For example, how exactly will traders be compensated and how much of this will be disclosed? Will data be available on trading activities, allowing independent researchers to look for patterns that might otherwise elude officials? The Volcker Rule could be a major contribution to financial stability. Or it could still flop. The devil now is in the details of implementation and compliance…”  
Many believe that it’s only a matter of time before bankers figure out how to “re-arrange” their activities so that they fit into the many exceptions the regulations provide. And if they are caught, so what? They will still collect their bonuses, have their firms pay a fine and move on.  
Root causes of the meltdown remain unaddressed  
Even if implementation of the Volcker Rule is totally successful on its own terms, we also need to recognize that it doesn’t deal with root causes of the 2008 meltdown. As Alan S. Blinder, professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University, former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, and the author of the excellent history of the financial crisis, After the Music Stopped ,  wrote in  Wall Street Journal , in September 2013, that the financial lessons have not been learned.  
 
  The requirement that Wall Street firms have “skin in the game” in the securitization of mortgages has been crippled . The proposal that was being reviewed in September “would exempt almost 95 percent of all mortgages from the skin-in-the-game requirement.” Result: the intent of the law is negated.  
 
 
  The rating agencies are still hired and paid by the very companies whose securities they rate.  The credit-rating agencies “contributed mightily to the financial mess… they blessed financial junk with coveted triple-A ratings… The rating agencies are still hired and paid by the very companies whose securities they rate.”  
  The $5 trillion banking assets in derivatives are still off-balance sheet and unregulated.  Bad mortgages were a serious problem in 2008, but it was unregulated derivatives that turned that serious problem into a global financial disaster. “Derivatives based on mortgages were a principal source of the reckless leverage that backfired so badly during the crisis, imposing huge losses on investors and many financial firms.” Yet the Dodd-Frank law “exempts the vast majority of derivatives” from any regulation. Since the $5 trillion that the big banks have in derivatives are undisclosed and off their balance sheets, no investor can evaluate the risks involved. Basic transparency is lacking.  
 
Responding to the 2008 crisis by issuing stricter regulations of the big banks, while leaving derivatives unregulated, is like responding to the 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor by invading Australia.  
Professor Blinder concludes that the principal problems that led to the financial meltdown of 2008 remain unresolved. His conclusion: another financial crisis is inevitable. The only question is when.  
The too-big-to-fail theory  
Some commentators recognize that regulations won’t get the job done, and instead suggest that the problem is that the banks are “too big to fail.” For instance, Neil Barofsky argues:  
“The idea is to reduce the amount of risk these banks take, both from a fairness perspective and also from a taxpayer perspective. It doesn’t solve the problem. The problem of too big to fail banks is still there. The way to do it is to break them up.”  
However those who argue that bank size per se is the problem need to recall that the institution that collapsed and triggered the 2008 crisis—Lehman Brothers—wasn’t a big commercial bank. It was a medium size investment bank. It was Lehman’s entanglement with banks and other financial institutions through derivatives that turned its collapse into a global debacle. Similarly, the Depression of the 1930s wasn’t caused by the collapse of a big bank: it was a run on smaller banks that caused the problem. Reducing bank size by itself can’t solve the underlying problem of banking risk, although it could reduce the problem of excessive political influence that big banks exercise.  
The regulatory fallacy  
If we dig deeper into what’s going wrong here, we can see an illusory faith in regulations to solve these kinds of problems.   As analyst Lance Brofman  wrote in September 2013 :  
“To determine if someone is an adherent of the regulatory fallacy, ask this question: … was there any type of regulatory policy which would have prevented the financial crisis and subsequent depression? If they answer yes, they are adherents to the regulatory fallacy.”  
The regulatory fallacy has curiously bipartisan support. The left’s version of the fallacy is that the elimination the Glass Steagall Act and the ensuing lack of regulations enabled and encouraged the excesses and illegalities in the financial sector that caused the meltdown. The right’s version of the fallacy is that political pressure to expand housing and the activities of Fannie/Freddie “made” the banks and other financial institutions do what they did.  
Although there is a minuscule grain of truth in both versions of the fallacy, neither version is a good explanation. The banks did what they did because they were focused on making money, and to hell with the consequences. As Charles Prince, head of Citigroup [C] famously said in 2007, “As long as the music is playing, you’ve got to get up and dance . ” Regulations, or lack thereof, aided and abetted their activities, but they didn’t cause them.  
A case of reckless banking behavior  
What was really going on in the lead-up to 2008? How bad was the behavior? Nobel-Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller writes in his book,  Finance and the Good Society   about the 2008 crisis thus:  
“It is hard to blame the crisis on a sudden outbreak of malevolence. The situation during the boom that created the crisis was rather more like that on a highway where most cars are going a just a little too much over the speed limit. In that situation, well-meaning drivers will just flow with the traffic. The U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, in its final 2011 report, described the boom as ‘madness,’ but, whatever it was, it was not for the most part criminal.”  
Professor Shiller may have won the Nobel Prize in economics, but his analogy is frankly absurd. Thus in the single-minded search for profits for shareholders, banks slid into pursuing what Fred Reichheld has called “bad profits”.  
 
  price gouging , with unusual ways to levy hidden charges on customers, particularly customers who were vulnerable.  
  gaming the system , such as betting against securities that they themselves had created.  
  toll collecting , such as high speed trading, using their position to extract charges and profits, simply because of their position in the system.  
  zero-sum proprietary trading in derivatives , with dubious social benefit and great risk to society.  
  extraordinary increases in executive compensation , that were inversely related to the firms’ long-term financial performance.  
 
In due course, the pursuit of “bad profits” turned into practices that were illegal., including:  
 
  price fixing of LIBOR ,  
  abuses in foreclosure ,  
  money launderin g of drug dealers and terrorists,  
  assisting  tax evasion  and  
  misleading clients  with worthless securities that led to settlements entailing tens of billions of dollars in settlements.  
 
Thus Professor Shiller’s suggestion by analogy that in 2008, “most cars were going just a little over the speed limit” is ridiculous. The cars were not just going a little over the speed limit. Some cars were going at twice or three times the speed limit. Some cars were taking short cuts and going cross country, causing massive damage to main streets along the way.  Some drivers were putting grease on the track so the other cars would skid. Some drivers had stopped driving and set up toll booths and were exacting tolls on cars passing through. Some drivers had become spectators who were using other people’s money to gamble on who would win. The situation got so complicated that when some of the very big gambles went really bad, no-one knew any more who owed what to whom.  
In the traffic analogy, having more cops on the road to enforce the speed limit would be only a tiny part of the solution. Fundamentally we would also need drivers with a fundamentally different sense of responsibility in driving.  
Similarly in banking, we need not just more regulators and regulations, but bankers with a fundamentally different sense of responsibility in banking.  
The macroeconomic theory of the crisis  
As an alternative to the regulatory fallacy, Brofman makes an argument that the roots of the crisis were macroeconomic in nature. The crisis flowed from having too much money in the economy as a whole, as a result of excessively “accommodative” Fed policy. The volume of money was greater than the real productive opportunities that corporations could find for using that money. So when the banks and others had lent all the money they could lend to people who could repay, they started lending money to people who couldn’t repay. Collapse was inevitable.  
There is a grain of truth to Brofman’s macro-economic explanation of 2008, which is eerily reminiscent of today’s situation: an excessively accommodative Fed and corporations unable to find productive uses for the flood of money that has come their way. But it is also incomplete. It doesn’t cover the key element in the 2008 crisis: derivatives. The collapse of the mortgage market was one thing. The damage was aggravated by derivatives that magnified the losses exponentially and froze financial markets. A serious problem became a global debacle.  
The recession fallacy  
Brofman’s  interesting article  points to another widely shared fallacy: that the economy is in a recession, not a depression.   Cheap government money, channeled through big banks to big corporations is pumping up corporate profits (including those of banks) and the stock market. But investment by public corporations lags and the real economy of firms that invest in, and produce, real goods and services remains anemic. Long-term unemployment and underemployment remain stubbornly high. Income inequality is worsening.  
In this world, it’s easier for big firms to buy back their own shares than it is to invest in the real economy. And it’s more lucrative for big banks to focus on making money out of money than it is to fund investment in the real economy. Indeed, with free government funding, it’s easy making money simply by gambling on whether prices will go up or down, even though there is little or no benefit from these activities to the real economy. Indeed, for the financial sector, the more volatility the better. The interests of the financial sector are thus directly opposed to those of the real economy, which needs stability, not volatility.  
An era of Potemkin Prosperity  
As a result, we live in an era of government-funded Potemkin Prosperity. Like the fake settlements that Grigory Potemkin built in Crimea back in 1787 to fool Empress Catherine II that things were better than they actually were, so the massive influx of cheap government money permits the appearance of an economic recovery, albeit sluggish.  
How long can the Potemkin Prosperity last? The economy shows only meager signs of real growth. Massive new fiscal stimulus is politically unthinkable. Interest rates can’t go any lower and “forward guidance” from the Fed is of limited utility. The Fed appears to have run out of weapons, although Bob Feinberg in a letter to the New York Times suggests darkly, “If the market ever starts to turn down, the Fed will buy stocks, too. The regime cannot afford another crash.”  
A return to the real economy  
More fundamentally, what’s happening is that the financial economy has become disconnected from the real economy. Back around 1970, the idea got going that the only purpose of a firm was to make money for itself and its shareholders.  Four decades later, we can see that this widely shared idea has had disastrous consequences.  
It has led to “ bad profits ” that have destroyed customer loyalty. It is responsible for massive offshoring of manufacturing, thereby  destroying major segments of the US economy . It has  undermined US capacity to compete in international markets . It is a key driver in the continuing growth of derivatives and the 2008 financial crisis. It lies behind the failure of companies to invest since 2008 and the  lack of a self-sustaining recovery .  
The financial sector is thus part of a much larger problem. Its delinquencies are just one of many consequences of a flawed economic philosophy. The remedy? Corporations must rededicate themselves to generating value for customers, and banks must shift their attentions from “making money from money” to funding the real economy.  
In effect, we must locate and resolve the real source of the problem. These are not issues that can be solved by laws or regulations, or Congress, or the Fed. These are questions about: what sort of society do we want? And what sort of people are we? What sort of organizations should we create and how should they be led and managed?  
If we as a people decide that we want organizations to go on “making money out of money” in any way possible and to hell with everything else, then the economic, social and political problems that we have will always be insoluble. The situation will go from bad to worse, with apparent booms, increasingly severe busts and deteriorating income inequality.  
If on the other hand we dedicate ourselves and our organizations to adding value with goods and services to those for whom work is done, through genuine hard work, innovation and ingenuity, then many of the seemingly insoluble economic and regulatory problems that we face will dissolve.  
Three different economies  
In effect, as we look around the world today, we can see three economies on very different trajectories.  
 
  The Traditional Economy is an economy of tired old firms, still focused on pushing products at customers and struggling to find opportunities to invest: this economy is in steep and fundamental decline.  
  The Financial Sector has achieved profitability through practices that have caused increasingly serious financial crises: it needs to be reined in and reconnected to the real economy.  
  Meanwhile, the emerging Creative Economy comprises firms focused on adding real value in goods and services for real people. It is the genuinely flourishing  real economy of the future .  
 
Many firms are already on the track of the Creative Economy. It is more than a class of creative workers or a set of creative industries. It constitutes an ongoing transformation of the entire modern economy and society. It is still small in absolute terms but it is growing fast. It will eventually affect every person and every organization. It alone is the way to widespread economic prosperity.  
And read also:  
Five steps banks must take to achieve the good society  
Leadership in the three-speed economy  
The dumbest idea in the world: maximizing shareholder value  
How America lost the capacity to compete  
The Phase Change to the Creative Economy  
_________ 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/stevedenning/2013/12/13/the-volcker-rule-makes-us-safer-but-not-safe/