         

         


         
             Markets 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:41AM
             | 154 views
     
		 The Verdict Is Still Out On The Volcker Rule 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Five years in the making, and more discussion than anyone really cares to admit – the Volcker Rule was finally passed by all five prudential regulatory agencies (SEC, Federal Reserve, CFTC, FDIC and OCC).  
The rules generally prohibit banks from short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, futures and options on these instruments. They prohibit banks from owning, sponsoring or maintaining certain kinds of relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds that engage in such trading. The rules also require banks to maintain a compliance program specific to the Volcker Rule if they engage in covered activities.  
Overall, I’m not quite sure if this hotly-debated rule will be  effective  or  not . Many are rolling their eyes at the complexity of the rule with the perception that it may never apply to them, however this could be wrong. Even the smallest of community banks may be affected by the future inability to use hedging tools. Although it is extremely complicated, the rule aims to address the risks that caused the crisis in the first place, while also looking ahead to what future risks need to be top of mind. Let’s consider the benefits and drawbacks of the Rule on the financial system:  
1)  Pros  
 
  Removes the riskiest practices  from the largest Too Big To Fail institutions .  
  Eliminating these risky practices will force banks to refocus on core banking practices, which in turn, benefits the consumer.  
  Timeline for implementation is lengthy and regulators can revise it at any time allowing for potential changes based on bank feedback.  
 
2)  Cons  
 
  Complexity of the Rule will be a distraction for the largest institutions required to comply.  
  Increased compliance costs associated with the rules will leave smaller banks struggling to keep up. Dodd-Frank, Basel III and a host of other changes are already tilting the banking landscape.  
  Service to clients large and small will be affected and most likely continue to trend to the dissatisfaction amongst many of a bank’s valued customers  
  Overly complicated regulation could force many current bank activities into the shadow banking system, which is what caused our crisis in the first place  
 
The United States has one of the most diverse and deeply liquid markets and banking systems in the world. The Volcker Rule is a welcomed approach to helping to mitigate the risks of our financial system. As we move forward with implementation, it is my hope that regulators continue to pursue a deliberate, cautious approach. While we must “close the barn door” after the crisis, we do need to create and refine rules with the future economy in mind. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Volcker Rule Will Not Work
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Ted Kaufman 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Volcker Rule Winners: Lawyers, Private Equity
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Daniel Fisher 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Forget The Fed: Rising Rates Are All Relative
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Frank Sorrentino 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/franksorrentino/2013/12/13/the-verdict-is-still-out-on-the-volcker-rule/