	 Lululemon founder Chip Wilson resigns in body size row 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Mr Wilson founded the popular yoga trouser company in Vancouver in 1998 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Lululemon suffers fashion faux pas  

		 


											




	


	





	 Working Lives Vancouver: Billionaire 

		 


								 
	 
                       Chip Wilson, the billionaire founder of yoga clothing retailer Lululemon, has resigned as chairman over controversial statements about body size. 
         Mr Wilson told Bloomberg TV in November that complaints over  see-through pants  were due to overweight women. 
         Some women s bodies  just don t actually work  for Lululemon trousers,  he said . 
         In March, Lululemon had to withdraw one of its yoga trousers from shops after complaints about the sheer fabric. 
         The company blamed the problems on style changes and production issues, but the complaints continued.  
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 Lululemon Athletica Inc.  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 10 Dec 2013, 16:00 ET  
		
			 
				 *Chart shows local time 
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						69.12
						 
						 				
							 - 
							 -1.22 					
						 
						 		
							 - 
							 -1.73 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       Mr Wilson founded Lululemon in 1998. 
         He served as chief executive officer until 2005, and has served as non-executive chairman. 
         Lululemon s board also announced that Laurent Potdevin, the former head of Toms Shoes, would take over as their next chief executive in January. 
         This follows the resignation of current head, Christine Day, in June. 
         Shares in Lululemon rose 3% on the news, before declining later on Tuesday. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25326899#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa