         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:40AM
             | 553 views
     
		 Three Biggest Video Trends Of 2014 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Image by None via CrunchBase 
   
 
In 2013, Netflix figured out how to supply its own content for people who want to watch videos on their portable devices. But in 2014, companies that produce videos and those that want to reach video viewers will face an array of changes that will create new opportunities and threats.  
What are these changes? What should broadcasters and advertisers do about them? Jeff Whatcott, chief marketing officer of Boston-based video platform service provider, Brightcove, offered his thoughts in a December 10 interview. Whatcott talks with broadcasters and advertisers and has his finger on the pulse of what they are asking for and trying now.  
Here are his thoughts about the three biggest trends in video.  
1. Live programming will surge  
On December 5, NBC attracted  18.6 million viewers for its live broadcast of  The Sound of Music . People could watch that on traditional channels via broadcast, cable, and satellite. But these broadcast media constrain the ability of viewers to watch live programming on their handheld devices.  
According to Whatcott, “Satellite and cable force broadcasters to cram everything down one channel. But the ability to deliver high-quality live stream content to any device and through social channels is incredibly powerful–for both digital media and digital marketing companies.”  
He envisions that live streaming content delivery will open up new ways to reach consumers and deliver advertising to them. “Going direct to consumer means broadcasters can create new brands and new apps with no constraints. TV executives that I talk with are at the early stage of noodling about how going direct will enable them to create new forms of content targeted at specific demographic segments,” explained Whatcott.  
Going direct benefits broadcaster and advertisers. Said Whatcott, “While ESPN has significant leverage in negotiating distribution fees, SiFi channel has less. But by going direct, broadcasters will not have to pay these distribution fees.”  
And advertisers will be able to target their ads more specifically. According to Whatcott, ”With a cable broadcast, if an advertiser runs an ad for a male product, odds are that it will appeal to only half the viewers. But by going direct, advertisers will be able to target ads for female products to female viewers in a Direct Marketing Area (DMA) that is more likely to be interested in buying the advertised product.”  
2. Better ad delivery technology will improve customer experience  
Today if you view a video online, the video player appears in your browser window. While you might not notice it too much, the way the ad to that video gets delivered is clunky. According to Whatcott, “Today’s technology for delivering video ads is like a first grade ballet performance. It’s OK but there is blinking, stopping, and the screen goes black.”  
However, in 2014 broadcasters will be able to deliver advertising via the cloud and that will improve the customer experience. “On the cloud, the customer gets a seamless experience. There will be no blinking screen and consumers will get a continuous, personalized video stream,” said Whatcott.  
Cloud-delivered advertising will boost return on advertising investment by letting more ads reach viewers who are more likely to buy after viewing them. Noted Whatcott, “30% to 40% of client-side advertising is blocked by pop-up blocking software. That means over 30% of the advertising is going up in smoke. It’s a real loss to the business. But with cloud-delivery, the ad is in the video stream and there is nothing to tell you it’s an ad, so it’s very hard to block.”  
And the smart device consumer experience of a live broadcast will be better with cloud-based advertising. “With client-side advertising, when you are watching a basketball game live and a an ad comes on, all the delays in ad delivery can cause you to miss watching a key basket or a touchdown. Cloud-based advertising will assure you don’t miss those key moments.” 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/petercohan/2013/12/13/three-biggest-video-trends-of-2014/