         

         


         
             Washington 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:23AM
             | 121 views
     
		 Is Privacy Law Stupid? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
A former Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, Stewart Baker, who is a staunch  defender  of NSA surveillance practices (and former General Counsel of the agency), has launched a humorous web  award , styled as a series of blog posts, entitled “The Privy Awards” for “dubious achievements in privacy law.”  
Baker doesn’t mince words, in his opening  post  he writes “It’s time to recognize just how stupid privacy law is getting.  And what better way than by acknowledging the most dubious achievements of the year in privacy law?”  The whole goal of his series is to prove just how “stupid” privacy law is, and to demonstrate that “the stupidity is pretty much built in” to the laws.  
He continues, by analogizing privacy law to prohibition and rudeness and argues:  

  The problem is, some rules just don’t translate well into law.  We know rude behavior when we see it, but no one wants a Good Manners Protection Agency writing rudeness regulations – or setting broad principles of good manners and then punishing a few really rude people every year.  The detailed regulations would never capture the evolving nuances of manners, while selective prosecution of really rude people would soon become a tool for punishing the unpopular for their unpopularity.  
  All that seems obvious in the case of drinking and rudeness, but when it comes to privacy, proposals for new legal rules seem endless.  In fact, though, privacy is every bit as malleable and context-sensitive as good manners, and efforts to protect it in law are inevitably either so general that anyone can be prosecuted or so ham-handedly specific that they rapidly fall out of date.  Either way, instead of serving the public interest, privacy laws often end up encouraging official hypocrisy and protecting the privileges of the powerful  
  So it’s not privacy that’s stupid.  It’s privacy law.  And the stupidity is pretty much built in. 
 
To prove his point Baker has set out to find multiple examples of  ”extreme hypocrisy in the application of privacy law, aggressive use of privacy law to serve the interests of the powerful, and multiple foolish applications of privacy law.”  
He placed his first round of  nominees  in a category called “Privacy Hypocrite of the Year” some of the nominees included:  
 
  Viviane Reding, European Commissioner for Justice, Fundamental Rights, and Citizenship, for seeking to impose regulations on U.S. surveillance that the European Commission was  unwilling  to impose on European Union members like Great Britain.  
  Francois Hollande, President of France, for criticizing the U.S. for NSA collection of French phone records, only to have it later  revealed  that the French government, not the NSA, had collected the data.  
  James Sensenbrenner, U.S. House of Representatives, for claiming the NSA hid information from him by disclosing it at briefings he refused to attend.  
 
Other nominees include Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  The  first   two  posts are worth checking out, and it appears he has at least two more posts planned.  He’s also taking nominees for additional “privacy hypocrites” prior to opening voting on December 15th.  
Gregory S. McNeal is a professor specializing in law and public policy.  You can follow him on Twitter @GregoryMcNeal .  
UPDATE: Title changed at 10:26 ET 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/gregorymcneal/2013/12/13/former-homeland-security-official-calls-privacy-law-stupid-launches-privacy-hypocrite-awards/