         

         


         
             Leadership 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:03AM
             | 117 views
     
		 Your Holiday Office Party Survival Kit 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   An office party run amok (William Adolphe Bouguereau 1825-1905 – The Youth of Bacchus 1884) 
 
Holiday office parties can be complicated, as well as fun. Dangers lurk in the punch bowl, on the dance floor and at the buffet. And if something goes wrong, well, everyone needs a party survival kit just in case. After all, no one wants to be either the boring office drone who never has fun or the depraved party animal running amok.  
But as many know, finding the right mix of “office” and “party” can be hard. No surprise here. The psychologies of working and partying don’t mix easily. An “office party” is really such an  oxymoron it could have been part of  George Carlin’s famous “jumbo shrimp ” turn on  Saturday Night Live . It takes some mental work to be in both places at the same time.  
What everyone needs in their holiday office party survival kit is an all too frequently ignored awareness of this complexity. To really have fun, to enjoy being with people who inhabit familiar office roles in a new party way, it is useful to embrace this complexity, useful to embrace being inside the oxymoronic paradox of an “office party.” Hold both in mind at the same time. Embrace contradiction like a dear friend.  
Sure, there are lots of targeted suggestions floating around— some of them really really good —that make it seem easy to de-fang the dangers: treat the party like a  networking event , an opportunity to monitor/develop  employee engagement , or a redefined chance to develop for  collective volunteerism ; keep the  drinking to a minimum , but don’t bum people out by abstaining;  be sure to put on your party dress or sport a festive necktie if everyone else does; and, our course,  grab the mike if karaoke breaks out but refrain from twerking  (which at my age is good advice in any situation).  
Unfortunately these targeted suggestions work best in defined spaces, like offices. Parties, on the other hand, invite the unexpected. A good party includes the excitement of something new, something perhaps hoped for, perhaps unimagined. So, what do you do when  Dionysus (aka, Bacchus) comes calling promising joy and rage outside and beyond the limits of your list of behavioral suggestions? How do you improvise?  
That’s when you need to reach into your survival kit to keep in mind that you are deep inside an oxymoron. You are both at the party and at the office. At the same time. And while it is impossible to be both at the office and at the party at the same time, that’s exactly what needs to be done. That’s the fun, like keeping an open secret.  
Only by embracing the contradiction, only by holding two different and mutually incompatible ways of being in mind at the same time can one enjoyably navigate punch bowl dangers. And that’s my contribution to your holiday office party survival kit: embrace the oxymoronic nature of an office party. Be both “jumbo” and “shrimp.”  And if you hold tightly to the oxymoron, you can avoid (and you probably saw this one coming) being a moron at either the office or at the party.  
Enjoy!  
For updates on “Managing Mental Wealth” and related news and links follow me on Twitter 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Managing The Psychological Bias Against Creativity
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Todd Essig 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/toddessig/2013/12/13/your-holiday-office-party-survival-kit/