         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:00AM
             | 180 views
     
		 'Psych: The Musical' Is Some of The Show's Best Work In Years 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
Considering the heightened state of reality the series exists within, it was only a matter of time before  Psych  finally did a musical episode, and there were only going to be two possible outcomes. Either the episode was going to be a wonderfully entertaining two hours of Shawn and Gus breaking into song for no reason at all, or the premise was going to fall completely flat. Luckily for writer/director Steve Franks, it’s the former.  
Psych’ s become a bit of an odd ball show in its later years. What started as a straight dramedy with a simple premise has slowly transformed into a genre breakdown series with minor threads of its original plot still intact. When news first came of a  Psych  musical there was much to be skeptical about, a feeling that was only heightened by the announcement the episode would air as a  special television event  removed from the show’s seventh season. Could putting James Roday and Dul  Hill in a situation where they have to genuinely sing and dance really work? When the episode premiers this Sunday, everyone will have their answer, and all the skepticism will be silenced.  
Taking place outside of the show’s canon where Anthony Michael Hall is running the station and Shawn and Juliet aren’t a couple,  Psych: The Musical  follows the gang on a case involving an escaped mental patient accused of killing a theater critic seven years ago in a fiery blaze. Establishing the ground rules for songs early on, those being there are no rules (the numbers take place both in and out of the show’s reality),  Psych: The Musical  spends its two hours delivering some of the finest moments ever written by Franks and his team. The highlights of which involve various duets between Shawn and Lassiter.  
The songs (co-written by Franks and composer Adam Cohen) are all purposeful and most importantly, original. Many of them are also very catchy, such as a one of the previously mentioned duets between Shawn and Lassiter that centers on the two of them bickering over the direction a suspect ran after escaping the walls of his institution. In addition to the songs themselves, the choreography is heavily stylized and serves to emphasize the high jinks of Shawn and his pals, such as a moment later in the episode where Juliet gets caught between Shawn and Lassiter during another duet.  
As for the episode’s case itself, it’s one of the show’s best tales in years. Perhaps aided by its run time, the plot’s actually afforded the opportunity to throw well-written curve balls at the audience in order to keep them guessing about the suspect’s true motives. These twists are also made more entertaining by the inclusion of long running series bad/kind of good guy, Mr. Yang (Ally Sheedy). From the moment she enters the episode, Sheedy turns her psychotic charm up to eleven and never eases up until her exit in the final act.  
The only negative thing to say about  Psych: The Musical  is its lack of ‘musical’ for a twenty minute stretch in the first half. Following a wonderful number in Woody’s lab, the music ceases to allow time for the actual plot of the episode to build. Unfortunately this is the moment where the episode turns a bit stale and zoning out becomes very easy for the viewer. But once past that point and the musical numbers pick back up, the entertainment value of the heightened story returns in full force.  
Psych: The Musical  is a complete success. Not just by  Pysch  standards, but by comedy standards. The predicaments Shawn and his gang are put through within the two hour event are hilarious and at times even dramatic, especially for characters one would think are emotionally dull. By the time the end credits roll on  Pysch: The Musical, the only thing you’ll be asking is, “when’s the sequel?”  
Psych: The Musical airs this sunday at 9/8c on USA 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillbarr/2013/12/13/psych-the-musical-is-some-of-the-shows-best-work-in-years/