         

         


         
             Pharma  &  Healthcare 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:00AM
             | 198 views
     
		 Dispatch From The Wild Frontier Of The Statin Wars 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
The long simmering controversy over the relative benefits and harms of statins has heated to a high boil with the release of the new AHA/ACC US guidelines. But nowhere is the battle more intense right now than in Australia where, according to the National Heart Foundation, a TV show may be the cause of 2,000 heart attacks and strokes over the next five years.  
The show was a 2-part documentary  (click here for part 1 and part 2 ) broadcast in October on the Australian ABC network about dietary fat and cholesterol.  
The program,  wrote  Amy Corderoy, the health editor of the Sydney Morning Herald, “claimed the causal link between saturated fat, cholesterol and heart disease was ‘the biggest myth in medical history’… [and described statins] as toxic and potentially deadly.”  

  Catalyst delved into a raging debate: has dietary guidance telling us to avoid fats pushed us towards more harmful sugar and carbohydrates instead?  
  But the program also went a step further, arguing cholesterol was just an innocent bystander in the body’s attempts to deal with the sugar-damage. It was not a big leap to claim statins were dangerous, and the research supporting them fraudulent.  
  …  
  Catalyst focused heavily on the opinions of US experts – one of whom believes vaccines can cause autism and another who promotes chiropractic and chelation for heart problems – while downplaying the conclusions of other expert groups. 
 
The program contained numerous quotes from cardiologist Rita Redberg, who has been a leading critic of statin overuse, especially when used for primary prevention. Redberg made clear that statins may be valuable for some patients who already have heart disease. But her views were accompanied by “experts” who were much more removed from the mainstream, including lengthy appearances, with little or no counterbalance, from extreme cholesterol skeptics like Beatrice Golomb and Stephen Sinatra.  
The show initially came in for criticism from the Australian National Heart Foundation. Now the Heart Foundation reports that “an alarming number of people with high cholesterol have stopped or changed their cholesterol medication as a direct result of” the program. The Heart Foundation surveyed more than a thousand Australians receiving statins and recorded alarming findings:  
 
  22% stopped, stopped then restarted, or reduced their medications.  
  12% “started taking natural remedies.”  
  9% completely stopped taking their medication.  
 
“Almost half of those who completely stopped their medications didn’t consult their GP,” said the CEO of the Heart Foundation. “What is most worrying is that of the people who have stopped taking their medication, one in four have previously had a heart event, such as a heart attack or stroke…. It should be clear that statins are life saving for people who have already had a heart attack, and people should not go off their medication without seeing their GP.”  
Extrapolating from the survey findings, the Heart Foundation calculated that as many as 55,000 Australians may “have stopped their medication as a direct result of the show.” Of these, about 40% had either had a heart attack, a stroke, established heart disease, or had multiple risk factors for heart disease.  
The Heart Foundation said that the estimate of 2,000 or more additional heart attacks and strokes was “a very conservative estimate.”  
Statins For Primary Prevention Get A Boost  
On the heels of the news from Australia,  a comprehensive review in JAMA lends strong support to the use of statins in primary prevention. The review by Fiona Taylor and colleagues concluded that  

  When used for primary prevention, statins are associated with lower rates of all-cause mortality, major vascular events, and revascularizations compared with placebo. Statin therapy is not associated with increased rates of life-threatening adverse effects such as cancer. 
 
Here are the relative risks, 95% confidence intervals, and the number need to treat for 5 years:  
 
  All-cause mortality: RR 0.86, CI 0.79- 0.94, NNT 138  
  Combined fatal and nonfatal CVD RR 0.75, CI 0.70-0.81, NNT 49  
  Combined fatal and nonfatal coronary heart disease (CHD) events: RR 0.73, CI 0.67-0.80, NNT 88  
  Combined fatal and nonfatal stroke: RR 0.78, CI 0.68-0.89, NNT 155  
 
In  an accompanying editorial , Jennifer Robinson writes that “the accumulated evidence should convince those with a philosophical aversion to statin therapy for primary prevention to reconsider their stance.”  
In  a viewpoint published earlier this month in JAMA , John Ioannidis discussed the implications of the new guidelines and the expanded population now eligible for statins that “eventually would lead to massive use of statins at the population level; ie, ‘statinization’. It is uncertain whether this would be one of the greatest achievements or one of the worst disasters of medical history.”  
Hat tip: Marilyn Mann  





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Controversy Erupts Over Accuracy Of Cardiovascular Risk Calculator For Guidelines
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Larry Husten 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    No Evidence That Statins Impact Cognitive Function
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Larry Husten 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    After Long Wait, Updated US Cardiovascular Guidelines Now Emphasize Risk Instead Of Targets
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Larry Husten 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Low Rate Of Problems With Statins In Study Of Quarter Million Patients
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Larry Husten 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/larryhusten/2013/12/13/dispatch-from-the-wild-frontier-of-the-statin-wars/