         

         


         
             Strategies 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 9:00AM
             | 124 views
     
		 The Five Benefits of Reverse Mentors 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
REVERSE MENTORING RELATIONSHIP  Are you in a reverse mentor relationship? If not, you are missing out. Get in the game. Put having a reverse mentor relationship at the top of your New Year’s Resolution list.  
3 RULES OF REVERSE MENTOR RELATIONSHIPS  Traditional mentorship is broken. It is a one way road that limits everyone on it. It is all about an older person telling a younger person how to succeed and passing along some contacts. There are 5 valuable benefits gained from reverse mentors. To unlock these benefits there are 3 ground rules to keep in mind.  
1: IT IS A TWO WAY STREET  Insights flow in both directions. Fresh and seasoned ideas both have their place. Make the mentor relationship more generous where everyone is valued.  
2: CO-CREATE  The old model of mentoring is about extracting and trading value between generations. The new model is about co-creating something of greater value together.  
3. KEEP IT INFORMAL   Reverse mentoring is free from the stuffy pressures of formal mentoring. Reverse mentoring starts with a meaningful conversation and has the potential to evolve into a substantive relationships.  
THE 5 BENEFITS OF REVERSE MENTORS  There five beneficial lessons learned from reverse mentors.  Tap into these skills and know-how.  
HOW TO BE RICH:  Millennials make the Renaissance Era look lame. They start things like the  Unreasonable Institute  during undergrad, they crowdfund toy companies like  GoldieBlox  to inspire girls to become engineers, they amass more followers than the Pope on Twitter like  Aziz Ansari  and all the while, they take on-line courses at EdX just for personal improvement. They probably make craft beer at the weekends and help create charities to fix big world challenges. So while their bank accounts might be less flush than the Boomers, their lives are often richer.  
HOW TO HANG OUT:  Millennials are free range people. They can generate results from anywhere. They might clock in for work from Bali or from an office in downtown Chicago. They operate by the rules mapped out in the book  Remote  written by the guys at 37 Signals. When get together for work, they hangout on Google.  
HOW TO LIFE HACK:  Millennials want to make money, have epic adventures and control their schedule. They look to create or use the kinds of life hacks championed in Tim Ferris’s  4 Hour Work Week .  
HOW TO CURATE:  As digital natives, this generation grew up with more knowledge available to them than all of the other previous generations combined. To cope with this tidal wave of information, they have become master curators. They might curate it for a fleeting moment with Snapchat, or produce powerful collections of interviews of entrepreneurs like at  Mixergy . They might be designers with vibrant Pintrests or music maves with amazing playlists Curation is their culture.  
HOW TO EXPERIMENT:  This generation lives by the lean start-up principles outlined by  Eric Ries . They embrace buddy adventures, launch with minimal viable products and pivot till they figure it out.  Y Combinator  gets this generation and have helped fund over 600 start-ups and  nurtured them into giants like Airbnb. This generation also accepts failure.  It is part of their career path, not a career killer.  
You can follow my other lessons learned on entrepreneurship, next gens and purpose on twitter @mlindenmayer 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/michaellindenmayer/2013/12/13/the-five-benefits-of-reverse-mentors/