	 Champions League: ITV retains rights to European highlights 

     
         
 
								
				
				
							 

			    
                               Highlights of the Champions League and Europa League will remain on ITV after the broadcaster agreed a three-year deal with Uefa from 2015.

  
               News UK, owner of the Times and Sun newspapers, will share internet and mobile clip rights with BT Sport.

  
               ITV learned this month that it will lose the live rights to both competitions in two years  time.

  
               BT Sport won them in an exclusive £897m three-year deal, 
    
announced on 9 November,  

     and set to run from 2015.

  
               The pay-TV broadcaster - which has pledged to show some matches free-to-air, including the final - will be able to show live all 350 European fixtures per season.

  
               ITV s new deal will allow it to show highlights of all the week s Champions League games on a Wednesday night. There will be no separate highlights show on Tuesdays.

  
               The broadcaster will also be able to show Europa League highlights on Thursday nights.

  
               Highlights of both finals and the Super Cup will be on ITV. In addition, highlights of both competitions will be made available on ITV s website and via mobile.

  
               Niall Sloane, ITV director of sport, said:  We are happy to have secured these highlights packages and to be able to bring them to a significant free-to-air viewership. 

  
               ITV, which has been the free-to-air broadcaster of the Champions League since its inception in 1992, currently shares live rights to the competition with Sky Sports. It shares Europa League live rights with BT Sport and ESPN.

  
               Under the new television deal, Sky will be unable to show the Champions League for the first time since 2003.

  
               The contract for mobile and internet clip rights, like the television deals, will run for three years from 2015. It will allow the Sun, the Times and the Sunday Times to show action from the competition on its digital platforms.

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        BT wins £897m Champions League deal
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 09 Nov 2013 
		
			 Champions League 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Can Sky bounce back from BT defeat? 
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 09 Nov 2013 
		
			 Business 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        BT Sport users reach two million
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 31 Oct 2013 
		
			 Business 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Get Inspired: FOOTBALL
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 19 Jul 2013 
		
			 Get Inspired 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
