	 Rangers make David Somers  chairman post permanent 

     
         
 
								
				
				
							 

			    
                               Rangers have made David Somers their non-executive chairman on a permanent basis having 
    
given him the post on an interim basis earlier this month.  


  
               But the accountant s appointment will still be the subject of a vote at the club s annual meeting on 19 December. 

  
               The announcement comes the day after it was revealed that 
    
Laxey Partners Limited had become the League One club s largest shareholder.  


  
               The Isle of Man hedge fund 
    
vowed support for the current board.  


  
     
	 
				 
		    





	 
		 I think the club needs some stability, it needs some leadership and I'm very much looking forward to working with the board and the management team here to take the club back to where it should be 
	 


	 Graham Wallace 
         Rangers chief executive 



		 
		
		 
			 

               In a statement to the Stock Exchange, Rangers stated:  The board of Rangers has appointed David Somers as permanent non-executive chairman, having previously been independent non-executive director and acting chairman

  
                In accordance with Rangers  articles of association, Mr Somers will remain subject to re-appointment by an ordinary resolution at the upcoming annual general meeting of the company on Thursday 19 December 2013. 

  
               The present board is facing opposition at the AGM from a group of shareholders led by Scottish businessman Jim McColl.

  
               They want former Rangers chairman Malcolm Murray, former director Paul Murray, Alex Wilson and Scott Murdoch voted on to the board. 

  
               In response, 
    
Rangers have appointed investment banker Norman Crighton as an independent non-executive  

    , while chief executive Craig Mather has stood down and been replaced with Graham Wallace.

  
               Mather stepped down after losing a courtroom battle with the shareholder group, which forced the postponement of the AGM.

  
               Rangers  announcement that Somers would be permanent chairman came on the day Wallace arrived at Ibrox for his first day of work.

  
               The 52-year-old former Manchester City chief operating officer has joined the Rangers International Football Club Plc board of directors as well as the club s board.

  
               Wallace told Sky Sports News:  I think the club needs some stability, it needs some leadership and I m very much looking forward to working with the board and the management team here to take the club back to where it should be, providing some expertise, some focus, some stability.

  
                I m looking forward to meeting all my new colleagues and everyone that s here, so we ll speak a bit later on. 

  
               Laxey Partners founder Colin Kingsnorth told BBC Scotland that he hoped the shareholders seeking change had already achieved their goal of better governance of the club without the need for a vote a the AGM.

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Laxey pledges to support Ibrox board
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 21 Nov 2013 
		
			 Rangers 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Laxey now largest Rangers shareholder
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 21 Nov 2013 
		
			 Rangers 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Rangers appoint Wallace as CEO
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 20 Nov 2013 
		
			 Rangers 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Rangers appoint Crighton as director
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 14 Nov 2013 
		
			 Rangers 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        McColl group bemused by Gers chairman
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 09 Nov 2013 
		
			 Rangers 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Rangers announce new chairman   AGM
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 07 Nov 2013 
		
			 Rangers 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Get Inspired: FOOTBALL
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 19 Jul 2013 
		
			 Get Inspired 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
