


By Suzi Parker LITTLE ROCK, Ark.  Dec 5 (Reuters) - People from Texas to
New York were bundling up on Thursday against a winter storm
that closed schools and businesses, blanketed roads and power
lines with ice and threatened to disrupt road travel across a
wide swath of the United States. The southern plains and central region, including Arkansas,
Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas were expected to be especially hard
hit by the storm, according to the National Weather Service. In Little Rock, Arkansas, people scrambled to stock their
cupboards as temperatures plunged. Many grocery stores reported
running low on bread, milk, bottled water and snack foods by
noon on Thursday. Holly Vines, a Little Rock resident, hoped she could still
find something on the shelves. "I'm going to get coffee, cigarettes and cat food then I'm
going to get my sable coat out of storage in case I have to
sleep in it," she said. Missouri Governor Jay Nixon activated the state's 24-hour
emergency operations center. Missouri's highway patrol has
readied all of its four-wheel drive vehicles to reach motorists
as needed on snow-packed roads, according to a statement from
Nixon's office. Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe and Texas Governor Rick Perry
also directed state resources to prepare for the storm. A motorist was killed in a vehicle rollover on a snowy state
highway in southwest Missouri on Thursday, said Sergeant Jason
Pace of the Missouri State Highway Patrol. "We are seeing partially to totally snow-covered roads,"
Pace said. "There are lots of slide-offs and multiple accidents
related to that." Utility provider Entergy Arkansas said it was bringing in an
additional 6,700 workers to help with downed power lines and
outages that could last a week. The company urged people to make
sure they had flashlights, fresh batteries, food, water and
first-aid kits. Many roads and highways in northwest Arkansas were covered
with ice. Schools, including the University of Arkansas, were
closing early or canceled classes entirely. The Arkansas State
Police said there were numerous reports of car accidents. "In some locations, a glaze of ice may span several days and
last into the weekend," meteorologist Alex Sosnowski said on
AccuWeather.com. MORE SNOW COMING Missouri and states eastward and north to New York are
likely to see more snow than ice as the wintry weather hits
Thursday evening, bringing up to 6 inches (15 cm) of snow to
cities including St. Louis, Pittsburgh and Albany, New York,
meteorologists said. The National Weather Service said 4 to 8 inches (10 to 20
cm) of snow was forecast for Missouri overnight and into Friday. "This evening, we will see travel conditions severely
impacted," said weather service meteorologist Andy Foster in
Springfield, Missouri. Freezing rain and sleet will make roads treacherous in
Tennessee on Friday, according to the National Weather Service. "Basically we're going to get a bunch of cold rain on and
off (Friday), then sub-freezing temperatures are going to move
in," said weather service meteorologist Angie Lese in Nashville. The frigid weather sweeping across the Midwest and Southern
Plains follows a storm that dumped up to 22 inches (56 cm) of
snow in parts of Minnesota earlier this week. After the storm passes, temperatures in parts of the central
and western United States will be 10 to 30 degrees Fahrenheit
(5.5 to 17 Celsius) below normal through the weekend as a cold
air mass spreads through those regions, the National Weather
Service said. FedEx said in a statement on Thursday, its 15 
meteorologists are closely monitoring the severe winter storm
moving across the country. "We have detailed contingency plans in place to help
mitigate any delays," FedEx spokeswoman Carla Boyd said in a
statement. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/aR7rCfJ3bfg/story01.htm