


By Donny Kwok HONG KONG  Dec 6 (Reuters) - The world's most valuable
jewellery retailer Chow Tai Fook, which counts Cartier
 and Tiffany  &  Co as competitors, is on a quest
to conquer the hearts of China's future big spenders. Its
weapons of choice: Hello Kitty and Winnie the Pooh. Superman and the Angry Birds team also feature in Chow Tai
Fook Jewellery Group's range of fashionable, and affordable,
pieces which the company hopes will win over the millions of
Chinese who live outside major cities but who are reaping the
benefits of a rapidly growing economy and who remain enamoured
by the gleam of gold. "We are quite similar to the fast fashion way of business in
that our products are only available for a limited period of
time," Kent Wong, managing director of Chow Tai Fook, told
Reuters. "The stock-keeping units will have to respond promptly to
the fast-changing tastes of customers, especially young
customers, who can share information about trends very quickly
on their smartphones," he added. China, the world's second largest economy, is on track to
overtake India as the world's biggest consumer of gold this year
as falling prices encourage purchases for both personal use and
investment. Combine that penchant for gold with a population that is
rapidly urbanising, and becoming more affluent and
trend-conscious in the process, and building customer loyalty as
well as keeping up with fashion becomes key to the prospects of
jewellery retailers. About 100 million people are likely to move into cities over
the next 17 years, according to ratings agency Moody's. China is
already the second largest market for Zara-brand owner Inditex
, the world's biggest fashion retailer. "Just like fast fashion, fast jewellery is the right stuff
to target at the youth and the products can also sell at a
better margin when they are limited edition," said Renee Tai, a
Hong-Kong based analyst at brokerage UOB-Kay Hian. GOLD FOR THE MASSES Chow Tai Fook's fashion jewellery, which costs between
HK$200 and HK$2,000 ($26 and $260), is a far cry from the luxury
offerings that have traditionally accounted for over 80 percent
of sales, and which on average cost about 10 times as much. But the shift to expand mass-market retail is already paying
off. Chow Tai Fook saw its net profit rise by a forecast-beating
92.3 percent in the six months ended September, with same-store
sales growing 33.2 percent. Chow Tai Fook, which has a market value of nearly $16
billion, is not alone in targeting the masses. Smaller rival Luk Fook Holdings International,
with a market value of $2.4 billion, is looking at opening
stores in busy railway stations to expand its reach in China and
raise its profile in less developed cities and the vast
hinterland. Building brand loyalty also makes good business sense. Repeat purchases by Chow Tai Fook's Hong Kong members
contributed almost 17 percent to total revenue in Hong Kong and
Macau for the six months ended September, while those from its
China members made up nearly one-quarter of total sales in the
mainland, company data shows. "We are seeing a significant surge in retailers investing in
loyalty programs in order to increase consumers' loyalty as it's
getting harder and harder for retailers to drive growth by
purely relying on their quick pace of expansion," said Brian
Negley, vice president of consumer research firm Nielsen China. IMAGE CONSCIOUS But as it pushes into rapidly changing jewellery, Chow Tai
Fook faces the challenge of retaining its reputation for
exclusive, luxury items while also appealing to the masses. The company, founded in 1929, aims to achieve this by
selling some of its fast jewellery products online, where most
customers are aged between 20 and 35. Chow Tai Fook also maintains three distinct store layouts
that cater to its clients - the high-end luxury consumers, the
youth and the mass market, managing director Wong said. Analysts say focusing on the younger generation is key. "The company has to ensure this group of people gets
familiar with the brand and they won't feel your products are
out of date," said UOB-Kay Hian analyst Tai. "They have to groom a new group of customers to support the
brand and products." 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/ul-22ntOzuA/story01.htm