


* Eyes on U.S. November jobs data due on Friday * Fear of Fed paring between January-March drives stocks
lower * Nikkei at six-year high on news Japan could ease more * Oil at three-month high, gold trades near five-month low By Barani Krishnan NEW YORK, Dec 3 (Reuters) - Fear that the Federal Reserve
will scale back its stimulus as the U.S. economy recovers hit
world stock markets on Tuesday, with European equities falling
the most since August, while safe havens such as the yen and
Treasuries rose. Investors expect the Fed to start paring its $85
billion-a-month program if Friday's U.S. jobs report for
November shows encouraging growth. Many think a cut-back could
come in March, though some expect it by January, after U.S. data
on Monday pointed to steadying growth. "It's not a question of if, it's a question of when, and you
always have the question of how much of it is real and how much
of it is emotional in nature?" said Gordon Charlop, managing
director at Rosenblatt Securities in New York. Gold, which like stocks has been a key beneficiary of the
U.S. stimulus due to inflationary concerns, traded not far from
Monday's near 5-month low. Oil approached a 3-month high as the
U.S. recovery boosted the demand outlook for energy amid supply
outages in Libya. The dollar slipped against the yen as investors took profits
from a month-long rally in the currency, driven by speculation
of an imminent reduction in the Fed stimulus. While the direction was decidedly down in most markets, 
trading was thin as caution prevailed ahead of Friday's U.S.
jobs report and after eight straight weeks of gains for the S "With the market being up so much in November, we're seeing
some healthy profit-taking. It's been a very strong year in
equities," said Eric Marshall, director of research at Hodges
Capital Management in Dallas, Texas. In U.S. trading, the S  500 was on track for its third
consecutive decline, while a measure of European stocks lost 1.5
percent. Wall Street's Dow Jones industrial average was down
117.88 points, or 0.74 percent, at 15,890.89. The Standard  & 
Poor's 500 Index was down 8.86 points, or 0.49 percent,
at 1,792.04. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 14.86
points, or 0.37 percent, at 4,030.40. U.S. bond prices edged higher. The benchmark 10-year
Treasury note was up 8/32, its yield at 2.7716
percent. The yen rose 0.5 percent against the dollar to 102.37
yen, after reaching 103.37 in Asian trading, Reuters data
showed. That was close to the 2013 high of 103.73 yen, a level
dollar bulls had been targeting. The yen tumbled against both the euro and dollar on Monday
after Reuters reported exclusively that the Bank of Japan was
looking to expand its $70-billion-a-month stimulus. European shares were rattled for the second day, with
Paris's CAC 40 sinking nearly 3 percent. The
pan-regional FTSEurofirst closed down 1.5 percent in
its weakest day since August. New fears over Europe surfaced as the cost of insuring
Ukraine's government debt against default jumped, leaving it a
whisker from 2009 peak levels. Political worries also clouded markets as President Viktor
Yanukovich left Ukraine for a state visit to China, amid
protests about his decision to abandon an EU integration pact. But investors reacted well to a debt swap by Portugal aimed
at preparing for a possible return to markets next year.
Portugal's bonds and stocks outperformed. "Portuguese bonds are actually posting a rally, reflecting
the fact that after this morning's exchange, next year's funding
is going to be less challenging," said Luca Cazzulani,
strategist at UniCredit. MSCI's world stock index, which tracks 45
countries, was down 0.6 percent, supported by early gains in
Asia. News of Japan's potential stimulus widening had lifted the
Nikkei toward a 6-year high. The European Central Bank and Bank of England both meet on
Thursday, with the ECB in particular focus after last month's
surprise interest rate cut. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.3600 on expectations
the ECB would leave interest rates unchanged after
above-forecast inflation data last Friday. The Australian dollar dropped toward a 3-month low
after the Reserve Bank of Australia left rates on hold and said
the currency was "still uncomfortably high." Spot gold rebounded slightly to above $1,222 an ounce
while remaining close to the early July low hit on Monday. Benchmark Brent crude rose 1.2 percent to near $113
a barrel. U.S. crude prices settled up 2.4 percent at
$96.04. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/xbXzzXo-UMI/story01.htm