


By  Phil Wahba Dec 3 (Reuters) - U.S. retailers rolled out holiday
promotions earlier in November this year, denting sales growth
over the Thanksgiving weekend that typically marks the beginning
of the holiday spending period, according to data released on
Tuesday by ShopperTrak. Online sales soared, lifted by the growing use of mobile
devices to both browse and purchase items, benefiting e-commerce
leaders Amazon.com Inc and eBay Inc. Total in-store sales between Thanksgiving Day on Thursday
and Sunday rose 1 percent compared to the same period last year
while the number of visits to stores fell 4 percent, the retail
tracking firm said. ShopperTrak has forecast sales at stores will rise 2.4
percent for November and December together. "Retailers stretched Black Friday deals and promotions
across November - removing the focus from just one big day of
shopping," said ShopperTrak founder Bill Martin. During "Black Weekend" 2013, shoppers spent an estimated
$22.2 billion, compared to last year's $22 billion, said
ShopperTrak. On Sunday, the National Retail Federation estimated
Americans had spent 2.9 percent less over the weekend. Shoppers appeared to be waiting a bit longer to do their
Christmas shopping, perhaps holding out for deals. An Ipsos poll
of almost 1,400 Americans over the weekend found 77 percent had
done at least some of their holiday shopping by Black Friday,
compared to 81 percent on the same day last year. According to IBM data, online sales on Cyber Monday, the
biggest day of the year for e-commerce in the United States that
fell on Dec. 2 this year, rose 16.5 percent, while sales through
mobile devices rose 55 percent. The biggest beneficiaries of the surge in online sales were
marketplaces run by Amazon and eBay, according to data released
by ChannelAdvisor, a provider of e-commerce software to
retailers that tracks online sales. Sales on Amazon's and eBay's marketplaces rose 30 percent on
Thanksgiving, Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Amazon and eBay's marketplaces did well in part because how
well suited their sites are to use on mobile devices, said
ChannelAdvisor CEO Scot Wingo. "One of the reasons they're taking market shares is the
growth mobile," Wingo said. Wal-Mart Stores Inc said Monday was the all-time
highest online sales day but declined to give a dollar amount or
the rate of growth compared to last year. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/lrDI9RfdmMs/story01.htm