

NEW YORK  Dec 10 (Reuters) - The Pimco Total Return Fund,
the world's largest bond fund, kept its exposure to U.S.
government debt unchanged in November even as worries over the
Federal Reserve's plans for cutting its stimulus hurt Treasury
prices, data from the firm's website showed on Tuesday. 
The fund, which has $244 billion in assets and is run by
Pimco co-founder and co-chief investment officer Bill Gross,
maintained its largest exposure to U.S. government-related debt
at 37 percent in November and its exposure to mortgages at 34
percent. Pimco said on its website that its holdings of U.S.
government-related securities may include nominal and
inflation-protected Treasuries, Treasury futures and options,
and interest rate swaps. The fund's asset allocation is important because Pimco
manages roughly $1.97 trillion and is one of the world's largest
bond managers. The Newport Beach, California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co is a unit of European financial
services company Allianz SE. The fund delivered a flat performance in November, down from
gains over the previous two months but still beating 87 percent
of peers for the month, Morningstar data show. Gross' flagship fund averted a negative performance in
November despite uncertainty surrounding the Fed's plans for
unwinding its $85 billion in monthly bond-buying, which hit bond
prices. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose
20 basis points to 2.74 percent over the month on the concerns.
The Barclays U.S. Treasury index fell 0.33 percent over the
month, marking its first negative return in three months. The fund trimmed its exposure to "other" forms of credit,
meanwhile, to 4 percent in November from 5 percent in October.
The firm said that "other" forms of credit may include municipal
bonds, convertible bonds, preferreds and Yankee bonds. The fund also increased its exposure to money market and net
cash equivalents to 5 percent from 4 percent in October. Pimco
defines money market and net cash equivalents as liquid
investment-grade securities with durations of less than one
year. The fund kept unchanged its holdings of U.S. credit at 10
percent, non-U.S. developed market securities at 4 percent, and
emerging markets securities at 6 percent. The fund is down 1.39 percent for the year, beating 53
percent of peers, data from the Chicago-based Morningstar show.
Over the past 10 years, the fund has earned an annualized return
of 6.18 percent, a performance that has topped 96 percent of
peers, according to Morningstar data. Investors pulled $3.7 billion out of the Pimco Total Return
Fund in November, marking its seventh straight month of outflows
despite its solid turnout for the month compared with peers,
according to Morningstar data. Investors have pulled $36.9
billion from the fund this year, Morningstar data show. In his December letter to investors, Gross reiterated that
investors should seek shorter-dated securities, including
Treasuries, corporate bonds and mortgages, on the likelihood
that the Fed will keep the key federal funds rate between zero
and 0.25 percent until at least 2016. The central bank has kept that rate near zero since late
2008 to help the economy recover from recession and has promised
to keep it there for a while longer, probably until 2015. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/lFQ1hJzWSo8/story01.htm