

* Cameron in first China trip since Dalai Lama row last year 
* British PM's priority is to deepen economic ties * Cameron pushes EU-China trade agreement * EU executive says such talks are premature By Andrew Osborn and  Ben Blanchard BEIJING, Dec 2 (Reuters) - British Prime Minister David
Cameron promised China's leaders on Monday he would advocate a
multi-billion-dollar free trade deal between Beijing and the
European Union, riling the EU executive which rejected the move
as premature. On a three-day visit with around 100 business people, the
largest-ever British mission of its kind, Cameron said Britain
was the Western country most open to Chinese investment and
well-placed to take advantage of China's market liberalisation. "China's transformation is one of the defining facts of our
lifetime ... I see China's rise as an opportunity, not just for
the people of this country but for Britain and the world,"
Cameron told reporters after meeting Premier Li Keqiang at the
Great Hall of the People in Beijing. China is the world's second largest economy, after the
United States. Cameron, who later met President Xi Jinping, cast Britain as
far more progressive on trade than other EU member states in
remarks that stirred a spat with Brussels over the issue. "Some in Europe and elsewhere see the world changing and
want to shut China off behind a bamboo curtain of trade
barriers," said Cameron. "Britain wants to tear those trade
barriers down." His approach irritated the European Commission, which is
privately understood to oppose a trade deal on the grounds that
it risks flooding the 28-nation bloc with cheap Chinese imports. "We believe that it is premature at this stage to discuss a
free trade agreement with China," Alexandre Polack, a spokesman
for the EU executive, told reporters. He said the EU and China were already discussing a possible
investment agreement and should stick to that for now. At home, Cameron's trade initiative is likely to be seized
on by opponents as he has placed a question mark over Britain's
EU membership by promising a referendum on leaving the bloc if
re-elected in 2015. That sits awkwardly with his campaign to
help broker a deal for a club his country may soon leave. "I've said to Premier Li that I will champion an EU-China
trade deal with as much determination as I'm championing the
EU-U.S. trade deal," Cameron said. Li said both sides had agreed to fight protectionism and
push for trade and investment liberalisation. China, he said,
welcomed Britain's open attitude to Chinese investment. He added that there had been a "breakthrough" between firms
on both sides on high-speed rail, but gave no details. One person familiar with the matter said China had offered
to play a role in plans for a high-speed rail link, dubbed HS2,
between London and the north of England. HUMAN RIGHTS British finance minister George Osborne opened the door to
further Chinese investment during a visit to Beijing last month.
He announced less stringent rules for Chinese banks operating in
London, in a push to make the British capital the main offshore
hub for trading in China's currency and bonds. Osborne also paved the way for Chinese investors to take
majority stakes in future British nuclear plants. Campaigners have often accused Cameron of putting trade
before human rights. On this trip, activists wanted him to raise
what they described as rights abuses in Tibet. A senior source in his office said before the trip that
Britain had turned the page on a rift with China over Tibet, and
that Cameron had no plans to meet the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled
spiritual leader, again. An encounter last year angered Beijing. Asked after his meetings whether he had raised Tibet or
China's imprisoned Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo in his
talks, Cameron said he had spoken "about all those issues", but
declined to go into detail. He denied that such trade trips presented a stark choice
between trade and human rights advocacy. "I raise them both.
That's what a policy of engagement is all about," he said. Cameron also brought up GlaxoSmithKline's problems
in China - where it is being investigated for alleged bribery -
with political leaders as the drugmaker emphasised its
commitment to doing business there. S Cameron had earlier visited a training academy for Jaguar
Land Rover sales staff as the carmaker unveiled a deal worth 4.5
billion pounds ($7.38 billion) to provide 100,000 cars to the
National Sales Company in China. England's Premier League also announced an agreement with
the Chinese Super League to develop football in China. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/syIF6XA_fes/story01.htm