         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 10:00AM
     
		 So Let's Look At What Happens When They Raise The Minimum Wage In Bangladesh 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Paul Krugman is undoubtedly a very good economist. He would also admit to being something of a political being. And it’s never quite certain which will win out in one of his columns, the political being or the excellent social scientist. As with this piece on the minimum wage  today :  

  Still, even if international competition isn’t an issue, can we really help workers simply by legislating a higher wage? Doesn’t that violate the law of supply and demand? Won’t the market gods smite us with their invisible hand? The answer is that we have a lot of evidence on what happens when you raise the minimum wage. And the evidence is overwhelmingly positive: hiking the minimum wage has little or no adverse effect on employment, while significantly increasing workers’ earnings.  
  It’s important to understand how good this evidence is. 
 
Quite, it is important to understand how good that evidence is. And the evidence that there are no bad effects is pretty flimsy and the evidence that there are disemployment effects is pretty good and strong. After all, it is a pretty basic idea in economics that when the price of something rises people purchase less of it. But let’s leave aside the increasingly sterile arguments over whether Card and Krueger made their case or not and look instead at what is happening in Bangladesh as a result of their raising the minimum wage  in that country :  

  Millions of Bangladeshi garment workers—key players in a supply chain that produces inexpensive clothing for Western retailers—got a pay raise over the weekend, as a new government-mandated minimum wage of $67 a month kicked in. 
 
I agree that it’s a pitifully poor amount but then this is a pitifully poor country:  

  For years, extremely low wages helped Bangladeshi apparel makers win contracts by offsetting other weaknesses that plague the industry—from inefficient factories to poor shipping infrastructure and frequent political upheaval that disrupts production. 
 
As Paul Krugman the excellent economist has been known to say the average wages in a country are determined by the average productivity in that country. And if you’ve got a lot of very low productivity areas in the economy then pay will indeed be very low.  

  Sirajul Islam Rony, a workers’ representative on the wage board that fixed the new minimum pay and other labor leaders have said some factories had shed workers following the government announcement to slash wage bills. 
 
Oh, what? You mean that if labour rises in price then people will purchase less of it?  

  Abdus Salam Murshedy, president of the Exporters Association of Bangladesh, a trade group said owners had no choice but to streamline their operations. “We have to increase productivity and cut costs, especially since the country is going through political unrest, which is hurting production,” he said. 
 
“Increase productivity” means either using less labour to gain the same output or gaining more output from the same labour. Either way, less labour overall will be used assuming that total output remains the same.  

  Manufacturers like Ms. Huq say Bangladeshi factories have more low-skilled “helpers” in every production line compared to more technologically advanced countries like China, which push wage bills up. Ms. Huq said the man-to-machine ratio in Bangladesh is as high as 1:2.75, whereas in countries like Cambodia it stands at 1:1. 
 
Or they will install more machines: which again means less labour used for the same level of output.  

  “Increasing productivity is the only way to survive,” said Khurrum Siddique, director of Simco Dresses Ltd., a manufacturer in a suburb north of Dhaka.  
  “It’s almost impossible for the industry to sustain this level of staffing at the new wage level.”  
  Mr. Siddique said Simco is investing in new, better machinery. He said he expects to shed about 10% of his company’s 700 workers. 
 
The thing is the laws of economics are the same in Bangladesh as they are in the US. A rise in the minimum wage really is going to lead to a fall in the amount of labour that is purchased. Because that’s just what happens when prices change, demand does too.  
Please note that this doesn’t mean that the minimum wage should not be raised. It only means that everyone needs to consider the effects of such a rise, both the good effects and the bad. It could be that a majority think that the benefits outweigh the costs for example. I don’t think so myself but that’s just me: clearly and obviously people can have different opinions on this. But the argument that a rise in the minimum wage is costless is, I’m afraid, simply not true. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Retail Wages Are Market Wages, Not a Welfare Program
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Jeffrey Dorfman 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    These Numbers Don't Convince On A $10 Minimum Wage Let Alone $15
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tim Worstall 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Apologies, But Welfare Payments To Employees Are Not Subsidies To WalMart And McDonalds
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tim Worstall 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Minimum Wage Debate: Who's Right?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Susan Adams 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2013/12/03/so-lets-look-at-what-happens-when-they-raise-the-minimum-wage-in-bangladesh/