         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 9:56AM
             | 10 views
     
		 Applebee's Will Install 100,000 Intel-Backed Tablets Next Year In Record Rollout 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
From the classroom to coffee shops, tablets are popping up everywhere. Now a new deal will put 100,000 of the devices on tabletops across Applebee’s restaurants in the United States, a record rollout for a business that continues the trend to gamify your dining experience and get you to spend more in your seat.  
 
The deal, which  should easily eclipse past rollouts  by companies and schools like Chicago Public Schools (60,000 tablets) and Cisco Systems (12,000 tablets), will put E la Carte Presto tablets on each table and bar for more than 1,800 Applebee’s locations in 2014. The deployment is also a win for Intel, which had led a  $13.5 Series B round  for E la Carte in June through its venture arm, Intel Capital and whose processors power the Presto device.  
“The device puts control of the restaurant experience in the hands of our guests,” says Mike Archer, president at Applebee’s. “Speed of payment is the first thing that guests will notice.”  
DineEquity, franchisor for Applebee’s and IHOP, made the commitment after several years of testing different solutions. Ease of payment will be a principal feature for the Presto devices, but the company also hopes to get feedback and deeper interaction with the brand’s menus and content, according to Archer.  
There’s a race going on to put tablets on restaurant tables, especially in the large casual dining chains. In Sept., Chili’s announced it would be putting tablets on diners’ tables  in about 800 locations under the Ziosk brand, operating out of Texas. Founded out of MIT, E la Carte has been in talks with DineEquity since 2010, says Rajat Suri, founder and CEO.  
“It was as difficult as you can imagine as a startup competing for the biggest chain in America,” Suri says. “Applebee’s wanted an exhaustive investigation and it took a lot of time to make sure that everything was done right.”  
Most difficult for E la Carte was integrating with Applebee’s custom point of sale system and in setting up a manufacturing process for the 100,000 pieces of hardware. Intel played a major role in helping the company find manufacturing partners in Asia, according to Suri. The stakes are high, as Applebee’s serves over one million customers each day.  
There are several ways that companies will try to make money off these types of deals moving forward. From the restaurant or bar perspective, there’s basic value in being able to get diners out the door faster once they’re ready to pay. The hope for DineEquity and other franchisors like Brinker, which operates Chili’s, is that diners will also start spending money on the tablets themselves for games and music. Suri thinks of each tablet as an individual jukebox, but diners can also expect young families to be distracting their children with game applications on the tablets that cost a small fee.  
Such revenue can be shared between the device provider and the restaurant. Advertising, while not developed for Presto yet, is also a possibility. On E la Carte’s side, the startup will then typically charge a SaaS-type subscription fee to the restaurants for the use and upkeep of the tablets, scaling up the more locations to cover.  
When I wrote about the Chili’s deal, several servers reached out to me expressing concern that tabletop tablets would be a threat to their jobs. Suri admits that with technology like his tablets, such concern will always be there. E la Carte stays agnostic about how restaurants choose to use its systems, the company says, and Applebee’s insists that it won’t downsize staff after this massive rollout is completed.  
“Very clearly, our intention is not to replace servers, who provide a personal connection that is invaluable in our restaurants and to our ‘See You Tomorrow’ experience,” Archer says. “This is about building on to the experience for the guest, not saving on labor.”  
 
Companies like Ziosk and E la Carte argue that their systems are actually a net benefit for waitstaff who often receive higher tips from diners paying over the tablet. Right now, both Chili’s and Applebee’s have chosen systems that don’t allow you to order your meal over the device but only put in requests for additional drinks and dessert.  
As diners become acclimated to these systems, however, the use cases will increase to include video streaming and social media interaction. When tablets become the norm at restaurants, users may start complaining that they’re being held back by being able to place a drink order but not their entrees.  
At that point, restaurants playing nice with their servers right now will have a tough decision to make. In the meantime, keep an eye out for these devices as they spread to counters near you and take your chance to weigh in on how they work before the status quo is set.  
Follow me on Forbes , Twitter and Facebook for more tech coverage of startups, enterprise software and venture capital. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Chili's To Install Tablets At Every Table: More Tips But A Cloudier Future For Servers
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Alex Konrad 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Forever Avoid The Line At Starbucks
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Gene Marks 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexkonrad/2013/12/03/applebees-intel-tablet-rollout/