         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 7:06AM
             | 724 views
     
		 Type Faster! My Month Inside A Writers' Colony Of 308,000 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    5 comments, 4 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
At Forbes, we hurl ourselves into bizarre situations so you can see what it’s like to  live on Bitcoin  for a week, or to stick an ultra-rugged laptop into  a tiger cage . Our travails are your entertainment. In that spirit, I’ve just returned from a month inside a writer’s colony packed with 308,000 people.  
Count me in as a survivor of National Novel Writing Month, or  NaNoWriMo . It’s a wild online dash in which anyone can try to create a 50,000-word work of fiction. The only rule: contestants must go start-to-finish within November’s 30 days. Other than that, there’s no entry fee and no candidate screening to get into the program.  
With such accommodating standards, how could any aspiring writer resist? I hadn’t tried writing  fiction since age 11 — and I was no threat to Stephen King even then. But when my oldest son said he was trying NaNoWriMo and wondered if I had the guts to join in, there wasn’t any choice but to give it a try. A few hours before NaNoWriMo’s kickoff, I settled on some sort of satirical tale about $100 bills tumbling out of ATMs. It would be called “The Benjamins.” Details could sort themselves out later.  
My initial frame of mind was shaped by a book called  “ No Plot? No Problem! ” in which Berkeley, Calif., writer and teacher Chris Baty explained why he started NaNoWriMo in 1999. As Baty told it, everything was nonstop buffoonery in the early years. Falling behind on your word count? Try having your characters stutter. All out of ideas? Wait for the characters to go berserk on their own, joining polka bands, talking with dragons and enjoying random sex.  
Participate in NaNoWriMo, Baty suggested, and you’ll be on your way to “ slapdash mediocrity.”  
Okay, so this wasn’t going to be a thoughtful sojourn at the  Iowa Writers’ Workshop  or the  MacDowell Colony  in the New Hampshire woods. I wouldn’t be walking past cabins where the likes of Alice Walker or Thornton Wilder created works for the ages. I’d be writing alone in my kitchen, just like this year’s 308,000 other participants. We’d be loosely connected via some email blasts and online chat boards — but how useful could that be?  
Then the NaNoWriMo ecosystem got its hooks into me. The first wake-up moment came when I posted my initial eight hours’ progress: 874 words. On some long magazine features, that’s a passable day’s work. Not for NaNoWriMo. A terrifying graph popped into view, showing how my output compared against the brisk pace needed to get 50,000 words done in a month.  
 
I was behind. Badly behind. If I couldn’t crank out 1,667 words every day — including weekends — I’d fail. It was time to create an evening writing shift, too. For the next eight days, NaNoWriMo was like being strapped to an aerobics machine that some demon had cranked up to Level  20. I was panting and sweating to keep pace.  
To add even more pressure, NaNoWriMo kept showing how fast all the other contestants in my part of California were writing. They were banging out more than 350,000 words a day! Some of it might be garbage, but they were writing. Why was I dawdling?  
I’ve raced deadlines for many years on big-league business books under contract with major New York publishers. This new project was supposed to be a lark. What happened? Something about those brown bars, day after day, made NaNoWriMo’s targets seem like the sternest of all.  
Then, on Day 10, it all got easy. Somehow I cranked out more than 4,000 words. Everything about “The Benjamins” kicked into overdrive. My villain went berserk in a hardware store, just the way I wanted, with mops flying. My heroine and her uncle pulled off a skillful con. Words — and schemes — were flying around. This was turning into wickedly good fun.  
Right around that time, I also began sketching out a scene where one character would strafe whole cities with $100 bills thrown from helicopters. (If you’re catching a  Ben Bernanke allusion there , you’re my kind of reader.) Nice concept, but would money flutter to the earth? Or would it be shredded by the chopper blades? I had no idea. It was time to crowd-source my question — via a posting on the NaNoWriMo discussion boards.  
Bingo! Within a few hours, two helicopter experts had weighed in. The money would be blown down fast, at first, as long as my helicopter wasn’t too close to the ground.  But my pilot would get in trouble with the Federal Aviation Administration. I hadn’t thought of that, but I liked this extra wrinkle. The scene would play out even better with an angry old pilot ready to embarrass his employers. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Seven Things CEOs Need To Know About The 'Crowd'
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Young Entrepreneur Council 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Innovation Guru With A Twist: His Company Never Existed
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     George Anders 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Wattpad: Serialise Your Writing And Build An Audience
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Suw Charman-Anderson 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Bezos Touts
Amazon's Role As Publisher
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     George Anders 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/georgeanders/2013/12/02/type-faster-my-month-inside-a-writers-colony-of-308000/