         

         


         
             Op/Ed 
         
         | 
     
        12/01/2013 @ 8:19PM
             | 20,385 views
     
		 Want An Unconquerable Mind? Try Stoic Philosophy 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    6 comments, 5 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Members of a brainy movement across the pond are reviving ancient stoic thought and coupling it with modern psychology to strengthen mental resilience. Their ideas hold fascinating promise for business and government leaders tackling global problems in a turbulent, post-recession slump.  
This week, leaders of the movement sponsored what they dubbed “ Stoic Week ,” showcasing how emperors and warriors of bygone eras offer compelling, timeless principles that today’s leaders can use to remain calm in the throes of adversity—or in the midst of wild success.  
Conde Nast CEO Jonathan Newhouse  swears stoic philosophy  is key to his inner stability amidst industries heavily focused on external appearance. Former Vancouver mayor Sam Sullivan  says stoicism empowered him  out of depression after a skiing accident left him quadriplegic. Former president Bill Clinton (who indulged in some rather un-stoic passions) reportedly sought stoic wisdom throughout his presidency.  
Prominent business thinker Nassim Nicholas Taleb praises stoic philosophy in his  Antifragile: Things That Gain from Disorder , a book that Stoic Week organizer Donald Robertson says nudged many curious readers toward stoicism. Robertson, a Scottish-born therapist and classics enthusiast, led workshops on psychological resilience for managers at oil giant Shell called “How to think like a Roman Emperor,” based on the life of stoic philosopher-king Marcus Aurelius. Aurelius’ life embodied these five core stoic ideals:  

  
   Richard Harris as Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius in the 2000 blockbuster “Gladiator” 
 
1. Immediately Recognize What Is Out Of Your Control.  
A stoic leader realizes that  only  his thoughts and intentions are truly within his sphere of control;  everything else  is ultimately uncontrollable.  
“Anyone in a leadership role must come to terms quickly with the paradox of their position: that leaders must wield power but that often so much that happens lies outside of their control,” Robertson told  Forbes . “How do we accept the limits of our power without slumping into passivity?”  
Robertson said people sometimes confuse stoicism with submissiveness, but calls this “a very superficial misunderstanding.” Students of ancient stoicism tended to be sons from wealthy, cosmopolitan families. Many went on to rule empires or advise great leaders in commerce and war.  
“Can you point to a single historical stoic who sat on his hands?” quips Robertson, whose forthcoming book,  Stoicism and the Art of Happiness: A Teach Yourself Guide,  is due early next year. “It’s just not in the nature of their philosophy to be doormats or stay-at-home types.”  
Robertson gave an analogy by Cato of Utica that a stoic is like an archer who diligently and confidently notches his arrow and draws his bow but  must accept  that once his arrow has flown it could be blown off course or its target could move.  
Stoic managers take great pains to aim well but must accept what happens with total equanimity.  
2. Fear, Anger And Other Emotions Are Personal Choices, Regardless Of Outer Circumstances.   
 
  
   
    Rear Adm. James Stockdale, stoic Navy pilot 
   
 
In a Harvard Business Review  article called “Building Resilience,”  psychologist Martin Seligman from the University of Pennsylvania discusses his concept of “learned helplessness,” when people subjected to stressful environments eventually collapse into complete passivity. Learned helplessness is the antithesis of stoic belief in inner power.  
Trapped in a Vietnamese torture camp, American James Stockdale’s antagonizers wrenched his shoulders from their sockets, shattered his leg twice and broke his back. Shot down from his Navy plane, Stockdale’s captors held him seven years: more than four years in solitary confinement and two years shackled in irons.  Though his body lay captive in Hanoi prison cells, Stockdale  later recounted  that his mind was free and his spirit unbroken. Through clandestine channels, Stockdale, a high-ranking officer, maintained chain of command among his fellow captured pilots—75 initially, growing to more than 460—issuing orders and boosting morale. Released at war’s end, Stockdale later won the Medal of Honor, the military’s highest award, and served as president of the Naval War College. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/carriesheffield/2013/12/01/want-an-unconquerable-mind-try-stoic-philosophy/