         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/01/2013 @ 10:58AM
             | 7,047 views
     
		 Ukraine Moves To Join EU In Russia Snub 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    7 comments, 5 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Thousands are protesting against the Ukraine governments decision to stall an E.U. trade deal after Russia weighs in with a “nyet” to closer ties with the West. 
 
Ukrainian protesters have successfully forced the hand of their president, getting him to reconsider signing a trade deal with the European Union even if it means irking one Vladimir Putin in Moscow.  
Once the bread basket of the old Soviet Union, the Ukraine is inching closer to the European Union and sidestepping Russia’sown fledgling customs union. The move comes with a price.  
The Ukrainian government recently chose Russia instead of the E.U. deal after the Kremlin threatened higher import duties and stricter trade rules if the country signed any European agreements. For now, EU membership is not in the cards. But what is might be just as politically volatile. A trade deal that will move goods and people decisively west instead of Russia-bound. And judging by this weekends protests, this is precisely what Ukrainians want. Pro-European protests erupted in Kiev, Ukraine’s capital, over the weekend when their president came back from Europe empty handed.  
Smaller protests began in Kiev and other cities soon after the country unexpectedly announced on November 21 that it had postponed signing a trade deal with the European  Union that most people expected would be signed during an official visit by Ukraine president Viktor Yanukovych at an E.U. summit in Vilnius, Lithuania on Friday.  Former Soviet bloc nation Lithuania joined the E.U. in 2004.  
The Ukraine’s government backpedaled on signing anything with the E.U., saying it would instead focus on strengthening its ties with Russia, which used its economic leverage over the country to threaten it away from a deal.  
On Saturday, riot police violently dispersed the protesters on Kiev’s central Independence Square, eliciting condemnation from politicians and the public both inside and outside the country. Now, the police crackdown appears to have garnered even more support for the protesters, and made the generally quiet Ukraine an international headline.  Yanukovych is now leaning towards the E.U. again, in a snub to  Putin .  
“I will do everything possible to advance the process of Ukraine’s rapprochement with the European Union, but without any serious losses for this country’s economy or deterioration of the citizens’ living standards,” Yanukovych said in a statement. “We must be only guided by national interests and be responsible for our own future. We should defend Ukraine on the political map of  Europe  and the world as a great and absolutely independent state,” the statement published by the official Ukrinform news agency said on Sunday.  
Also today, a district court in Kiev banned protest rallies in the city until January 7 after Ukrainian riot police brutally broke up a pro-Europe rally, leaving dozens injured.  About 40 people sought medical attention riot police cracked down on protesters camping out in Independence Square in Kiev, according to local media reports there. Another 33 activists were arrested by police. The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said that 12 police officers were injured in clashes with protesters.  
Ukrainian and Russian TV channels showed protesters rushing government buildings in Kiev. “We’re not barbarians, we’re Europeans,” one of the activists  was quoted as saying by RIA Novosti newswire. Windows were shattered at City Hall by protesters and local media have reported that protesters were using a bulldozer to try to break through a row of riot police buses surrounding the presidential administration office and were throwing smoke bombs and flares into the building’s courtyard.  
Hackers are getting in on the act.  

  
   Photo by Russian Television broadcaster, RT, shows a mass of protesters clashing with riot police. 
 
The Interior Ministry’s website was knocked off line today, fallen victim to a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack by hackers.  
Vitaly Zakharchenko, Ukraine’s Minister of Internal Affairs, apologized on Sunday to Ukrainians over the police crackdown on pro-E.U. protesters but warned against mass disturbances. “I want to apologize for the excessive use of force on the night of November 30 in Independence Square,” Zakharchenko reportedly told a session of the Interior Ministry Board today. He warned thousands of protesters, who had begun a new rally in Kiev’s Independence Square this morning, that police would respond. “If there are calls for mass disturbances, then we will react to this harshly,” he said. “Can Ukraine have a bloody war? Do we want to go the way of Tunisia or Libya?”  he was quoted as saying , in reference to the Arab Spring.  
Despite the court ban on protests, tens of thousands gathered in freezing temperatures in the biggest protests the country has seen since its 2004 Orange Revolution.  
Moscow also exerted heavy economic pressure on two other former Soviet republics, Moldova and Georgia, before cozying up with the E.U.  
Both initialed similar pacts on Friday in Lithuania. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2013/12/01/ukraine-moves-to-join-eu-in-russia-snub/