         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 9:10AM
             | 147 views
     
		 Mob City Is A Noir Love Letter No One Asked For, But Everyone Will Love 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
When news came of a new show from filmmaker Frank Darabont, there was little to celebrate. While a truly fantastic film director, his previous television work, AMC’s  The Walking Dead  was a real disappointment. The pilot of that series is slow, boring and extremely under-developed. These were the qualities expected from the Academy Award nominated filmmaker’s latest work,  Mob City . But not only do the first two episodes of Darabont’s crime drama prove that assumption wrong, they also prove the show to be one of the best new series of 2013.  
The pilot episode has it all: intrigue, wonderful cinematography, slick writing, astounding performances, an amazing score and an ending that will knock your socks off. It’s a true homage to the classic genre, but it also blends perfectly with its contemporary filmmaking techniques. But perhaps the greatest attribute of  Mob City  is its structure. While the first two episodes are certainly telling a heavily serialized story that will most likely span the full six episode run, there are also moments given throughout both of them for the audience to just kick-back and have a ball. Most of these moments involve Sid Rothman, a ruthless gangster played by the wonderful Robert Knepper who hasn’t been this great since his role of T-bag on the FOX drama,  Prison Break .  
But Knepper isn’t the only one worth watching. Jon Bernthal’s performance is as much homage to his big-screen counterparts of yesteryear as Darabont is to their directors. Considering the way he carries himself throughout the series, it honestly feels like this is the role Bernthal was born to play. He’s suave, honest and cool, just like the old-school noir guys of the 40s and 50s. Then there’s Neal McDonough who’s as watchable and charismatic as ever in his role of William Parker, a character that really comes to life through an amazing back story told in the second episode. He’s take-charge and he’ll surely end up being an audience favorite by season’s end.  
Thanks to the brisk pacing, the first two hours of  Mob City  breeze by faster than a 20-round clip in a Tommy Gun. Perhaps it’s because there was so little to expect from Darabont in the TV-realm after  The Walking Dead , but  Mob City  completely shatters any preconceived notions or expectations. Not only is the series an homage to a wonderful genre, it’s also a worthy entrant into its library. You watch  Mob City  and you understand, perhaps maybe for the first time, why the genre is so beloved. It’s a storytelling method that exists in a hyper-real world where everything is stylized and everyone is cool. Who wouldn’t want to live in that world?  
If you had to sum up  Mob City  in a sentence, perhaps the best comparison is to Guillermo Del Toro’s most recent film, Pacific Rim . Both works are love letters to a genre the filmmakers truly adore, and that love is on display for all the world to see. But unlike  Pacific Rim , there’s so much more underneath the surface to enjoy from  Mob City . In the end, while the hook of a noir series is cool, what will truly get audiences interested will be the stories of corruption, sex, murder and mobsters. That’s where the heart of  Mob City  lies, and that’s where the show will continue to thrive.  
Mob City  premieres tomorrow at 9/8c on TNT 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillbarr/2013/12/03/mob-city-is-a-noir-love-letter-no-one-asked-for-but-everyone-will-love/