         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 9:00AM
             | 28 views
     
		 Make Every Day A Holiday By Giving The Gift Of Service 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   (Photo credit: Mashable) 
 
The holidays often inspire us to give back, whether through making a donation to your favorite charity or serving the homeless in your neighborhood soup kitchen. However, we forget that social sector organizations need assistance all year long — and what they need most is your talent.  
Entrepreneurs have inherent skill sets, such as problem-solving ability and thriftiness, which the social sector truly needs. Money is a one-time gift (albeit a needed one), but the gift of pro bono talent lives with the organization in perpetuity. Here are some ways to leverage our holiday spirit into a full year’s worth of service:  
Do It Yourself as an Individual  
Join organizations such as Executive Service Corps, Taproot Foundation, Catchafire, or NPower and in doing so, much like a nonprofit consultant, you can donate your skills to a defined project. You can also join community efforts to recruit nonprofit board members. Cynthia Nunn, President of the Center for Nonprofit Management in Dallas, said it best: “When great people invest in great organizations the results can be extraordinary.”  
Do It Yourself as a Company  
Join many other entrepreneurial companies in a national movement to gift pro bono service through A Billion +Change , which is housed and managed at Points of Light, the largest organization in the world dedicated to volunteer service. Notably, 50% of the organizations that have taken the A Billion + Change pledge are small businesses and entrepreneurs, and they have found innovative ways to give their skills and talents to nonprofits in ways that also serve to enhance their bottom lines.  
Or, you can join skill-based volunteer efforts for many companies, such as GiveCamp, which coordinates efforts over a weekend for tech experts to give back to nonprofit organizations within their community. Another example is CreateAthon , a 24-hour marketing marathon during which advertising, PR and other marketing firms generate free marketing strategies and creative deliverables for local nonprofits that possess small or nonexistent marketing budgets  
Do It Collectively With Other Entrepreneurs  
Finally, if you don’t have the time or resources to coordinate efforts as a company, join organizations like Entrepreneurs for North Texas (EFNT). EFNT coordinates volunteer days and other avenues for Dallas-based entrepreneurs to leverage for the benefit of their community and company. “Efforts like EFNT allow companies to make a collective contribution to the community proving that the whole is significantly greater than the sum of its parts. By multiple companies serving together, they have the opportunity to make a positive impact in the community while giving their employees a chance to build or strengthen their sense of team — a win/win proposition, ” said Pam Gerber, EFNT’s Executive Director.  
And it really is win/win. Recent research from UnitedHealthCare found that 76% of workers felt better about their company if they invested in the community through volunteer work. This is especially true for Millennials, who have a voracious appetite for professional development and service opportunities. Deloitte’s 2011 Volunteer IMPACT Survey found that 70% of Millennials say a company’s commitment to the community would likely be a factor when choosing between two potential jobs.  
This holiday season, I want to encourage all entrepreneurs to give back, but also to resolve to find ways to use our special skills in the new year. This personal initiative will continue the holiday spirit all year long and benefit our companies and our communities.  

  
   Courtesy of YEC 
 
Suzanne Smith, MBA is a serial social entrepreneur and bridges many disciplines, including serving on the National Board of the Social Enterprise Alliance, coaching nonprofits as Managing Director of Social Impact Architects and Co-Founder of Flywheel: Social Enterprise Hub, and educating future leaders as Adjunct Professor at the University of North Texas. She holds an MBA from Duke University, where she was a CASE (Center for the Advancement of Social Entrepreneurship) Scholar and continues to serve as a Research Fellow.  

  
   Courtesy of YEC 
 
The  Young Entrepreneur Council (YEC)  is an invite-only organization comprised of the world’s most promising young entrepreneurs. In partnership with Citi, YEC recently launched  StartupCollective , a free virtual mentorship program that helps millions of entrepreneurs start and grow businesses. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2013/12/03/make-every-day-a-holiday-by-giving-the-gift-of-service/