         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 8:41AM
             | 4,034 views
     
		 Sony Reveals 2.1 Million Global PS4 Sales 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
Sony   Sony  has a hit on their hands, and they’re going to brag about it. We knew that the PS4  sold a million units  in its first 24 hours, but what about in the weeks since? The system has now launched globally, and yesterday we got our first look at  how fast it’s moving in the UK.  
Now, Sony is sharing worldwide sales numbers for the first time, saying that the PlayStation 4 has sold 2.1 million systems since launch.  
Andrew House took to  Sony’s blog  to discuss the accomplishment, and thank fans and employees alike:  

  “It’s an impressive and record-setting accomplishment for our company and for our industry, and we couldn’t have done it without you. I want to personally thank PlayStation fans, both old and new, for your vote of confidence. The best part: the PS4 journey has just begun. In addition to an incredible lineup of PS4 games from the best developers in the world, we will continue to introduce valuable new features and services to PS4 in the months and years ahead.” 
 
Again, this has to be put in proper context. The gaming industry moves millions of its various products, all the time, right? True, but this is a new console we’re talking about, and these numbers are without equal in the history of gaming. Last generation, for example, it took two months for Sony to even  ship  a million PS3s, much less sell them. To compare it to the current generation, Nintendo’s Wii U has sold 3.91M units total since its  launch last fall. Sony has done over half that in three weeks.  
Now we’ll have to wait and see if  Microsoft   Microsoft  comes out with their own announcement. Though the Xbox One also sold a million units in 24 hours after launch, it seems likely that the system won’t outpace the PS4 worldwide due to its higher price and many other countries’ general preference for Sony. Xbox has always been a leader in the US, but it usually trails PlayStation in the rest of the world, especially in populous gaming havens like Asia.  
I don’t expect we’ll see hard numbers from Xbox for a little while. If Microsoft announces sales figures that are in any way lower than Sony’s, all the headlines will be “PS4 Outsells Xbox One!” no matter how record setting the numbers would have been otherwise. Microsoft probably doesn’t want to read that headline for as long as possible, or they’ll come out with one of their own boasting about 3 million unit shipped, or something like that.  
The PS4 likely is outselling the Xbox One, but both systems are doing so well, that’s not really meaningful criticism of Microsoft at this point. The next console generation will likely last the better part of ten years, and a lot can happen during that time. I will say that I’m still not convinced it was worth packaging the One with Kinect at the cost of a $100 price increase. Despite advancements in the technology, the Kinect still has the problem of not being perfect (which a device with gesture and voice controls needs to avoid being frustrating) and not having worthwhile games other than dancing and fitness titles. See reviews of The Fighter Within to understand how limited games still are when they’re Kinect exclusive.  
That $100 would have helped Microsoft move more units, more so than whatever experiences Kinect is offering. But there’s always the potential for the device to finally prove its worth, and it has to be said that it’s improved with time.  
But being cheaper and having better press at launch has served Sony well, and 2.1M systems sold globally in just three weeks is stunning, and should indeed be celebrated. It shows how far they’ve come from the disastrous launch of the PS3, and that they’ve learned from their past mistakes.  
Follow me on Twitter , subscribe to my Forbes feed , and pick up a copy of my sci-fi novel, The Last Exodus , and its sequel, The Exiled Earthborn . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    PS4 Is The Fastest Selling Console In UK History, Dramatically Outpacing Xbox One
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Who Will Buy A $500 Steam Machine?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    PS4 And Xbox One Pose Major Problems For Internet Providers
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tamlin Magee 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2013/12/03/sony-reveals-2-1-million-global-ps4-sales/