         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 6:58PM
             | 336 views
     
		 Getting Rich Quickly in 2014. Is It Possible? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
According to Money Watch,  Google   Google  had 2012 revenue of $49.96 billion. According to  taxfoundation.org , in 2010 lotteries generated over $58 billion in consumer spending.  
Google sells advertising, apps, smart phones, cloud computing and a host of other products and services, but the lottery beat them selling the dream of quick riches with Powerball odds at 1 in 195 million.  
Whether playing the lottery, online poker, trading volatile stocks or similar, we are always looking for easy ways to significantly increase our net worth. 2014 isn’t likely to see a sudden reversal of human nature.  
I’ve Been There: The Stress of Money Concern  
When I started my business in 2005, I was about 24. I didn’t know what real stress was until money was sparse and the success of KAS Placement was always up in the air.  
Having money problems is like living in a bad dream. I could feel it in my gut, my performance at work declined, and I must have aged twice as quickly as most twenty-somethings during the same time period.  
I was used to frequent vacations to South Beach, but now even mental relaxation was out of the question, let alone staying in a hotel, paying airfare, etc.  
I fought my way through it and established a great business, but I did it inch by inch. I am not  Steve Jobs  and I knew not to waste my time trying to become an overnight millionaire by creating the next iPad.  
Slowly but surely, I began making money. However, if I had tried to do it quickly, I have no doubt that I would be nothing short of broke right now.  
What Is “Rich”?  
One of the reasons getting rich quickly is nearly impossible is that we’re chasing an ambiguous goal with odds heavily stacked against us.  
At what point do we officially become “rich”? Goals need to be specific to be worthwhile.  
Ask 10 people to define “rich” and you will receive 10 different definitions. To some, being rich means having the money to travel the world for the rest of their lives in complete luxury. To others, it’s the freedom to not worry about standard of living during retirement.  
Regardless of the ambiguity, we yearn to get “there.” For many, the quicker the better.  
This urge is much stronger in people who don’t enjoy their jobs, as opposed to individuals who have a true passion for their occupation.  
Depression in these people will sometimes make them lose control and try overly risky, irrational and unintelligent measures to escape their current life. They buy into the “too good to be true” and come out worse than they started. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kensundheim/2013/12/10/getting-rich-quickly-in-2014-is-it-possible/