         

         


         
             Logistics  &  Transportation 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 6:14PM
             | 48 views
     
		 Companies Need to Step Up to Meet New Conflict-Minerals Reporting Rule 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Democratic Republic of Congo (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Time is running out for manufacturers to begin reporting on the presence of  conflict minerals  from the Democratic Republic of the Congo in their supply chains.  
Beginning May 31, 2014, publicly traded companies will be required to declare to the  U.S. Securities   Exchange Commission whether or not their products or components contain tin, tungsten, tantalum or gold — dubbed “3TG” materials — from mines in the DRC that are engaged in human rights abuses.  
The requirement was included in the  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act , signed into law by President Obama in July of 2010. It has taken nearly four years, however, for the SEC to gather public comments and clarify the rule. And the May 31 deadline is just the beginning of a two-year phase-in.  
Nevertheless, many businesses have been dragging their feet on preparations for complying. According to a  survey conducted by  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC in the spring of 2013, at least a third of executives were still unsure as to whether it applied to their operations. Even today, many have yet to create a reporting structure with their suppliers, contract manufacturers and other supply-chain partners, according to Greg Dickinson, chief executive officer of risk-management specialist Hiperos .  
Minerals covered by the rule are found in countless consumer goods, including electronics products, automobiles, packaging and medical devices. Given that the average public company works with between 2,000 and 10,000 first-tier suppliers, and many thousands more further up the supply chain, the task of tracing product content all the way back to the mine is a daunting one.  
The cost of compliance promises to be huge. The SEC has estimated that companies will spend a total of between $3 billion and $4 billion in the first year alone, and between $200 million and $600 million a year after that. But industry sources claim the actual number will be much higher.  Tulane University  Law School’s  Payson Center for International Development  has pegged first-year costs at nearly $8 billion.  
The actual cost “is all over the map, in terms of how aggressive a company wants to be in getting to a conflict-free kind of message,” says Howard Heppelmann, general manager of supply chain management with software and services provider  PTC .  
The rule dictates a multi-step process. First, public companies must determine whether any of their products could contain one or more of the 3TG materials from the DRC or an adjoining country. Then they must conduct a “reasonable” inquiry into the country of origin of those items, and gather the appropriate information. After that comes a determination of the materials’ impact on their supply chains and products. Finally, they must submit annual reports that disclose the presence of any conflict minerals from the DRC and surrounding countries. (There are exceptions for recycled materials.) In addition to filing the report with SEC, companies must publish the information on their websites.  
There are no penalties for continuing to sell products that contain conflict minerals.Punishment supposedly would come in the form of damage to a company’s public image. The rule, says Hepplemann, “is nothing more than a name-and-shame law.” At the same time, no one appears to be ruling out the possibility of sanctions somewhere down the line, if a business fails to comply with the reporting requirement.  
Dickinson recommends a “crawl, walk, run” process that begins with getting all supplier partners into one information database, then determining which are at the greatest risk of supplying conflict minerals. Each should receive a questionnaire asking about the presence of any 3TG materials. The  Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has devised a standard due-diligence reporting and auditing framework that can guide the process.  
Experts agree that the best place in the supply chain to identify the provenance of affected metals is at the smelter stage. Beyond that, products are likely to contain raw materials that come from multiple sources, making individual country determination impossible. To capture information at that “pinch” point, the  Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and  Global e-Sustainability Initiative  have developed a  smelter validation program , which examines the procurement activities of each smelter.  
The SEC doesn’t expect every public company to be able to answer definitively about its use of conflict minerals by May 31, 2014. “Undeterminable” is an acceptable answer for at least the first two years. At that point, however, manufacturers are expected to have answers from their suppliers at each stage of the supply chain.  
“You need to continue to do your due diligence,” says Dickinson, “and ultimately get to yes or no.”  
The conflict-minerals rule probably won’t be the last time that regulators seek control over the human-rights policies of global business. It could conceivably be extended to other parts of the world, or additional raw materials such as  lithium  from Afghanistan, says Heppelmann. Or companies could come under intensified pressure for purchasing cotton from Uzbekistan, which is known for using forced and child labor in the fields. “Maybe that’s the direction the snowball is headed,” he says.  
For the moment, though, companies need to get started on grilling their suppliers about conflict minerals from the DRC and surrounding region. “You can make it better as time goes on,” says Dickinson, “but the clock is ticking. Break it into manageable chunks. The SEC wants a reasonable effort.”  




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/robertbowman/2013/12/10/companies-need-to-step-up-to-meet-new-conflict-minerals-reporting-rule/