         

         


         
             Lists 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 6:06PM
             | 218 views
     
		 What Are The Chances Of Brazil's State-Owned Oil Giant Petrobras Going Bankrupt? 32%, To Be Precise 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   (PHOTO by Ricardo Moraes/REUTERS) 
 
Three years after raising almost $70 billion in  the largest share issue ever , Brazil’s state-owned oil and gas  Petrobras   Petrobras  is in the midst of an unprecedented financial crisis. As the company approaches its 60th anniversary, it has seen its market capitalization drop  45% since its peak in 2010 , from $196.21 billion to the current $103.9 billion. At the same time, Petrobras’ debt soared to over 2.5 times before earnings, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), totaling $112.4 billion as of June 30, 17% more than a year earlier. Net debt, or debt minus cash and marketable securities, was $79.6 billion, resulting in the company’s  recent downgrading by Moody’s  on concern that fuel subsidies and huge investment commitments will cause its debt to grow until at least 2015.  
But why has Petrobras — whose CEO Maria das Gra as Silva Foster is one of  FORBES’ Most Powerful Women  — gone from heaven to hell at the very moment when it is announcing some of its biggest oil discoveries, including those in its Libra field, whose estimates for production were recently updated to as much as 12 billion barrels, twice previous estimates?  
Simply put, for Petrobras — as for any other oil company out there in the world, and Brazil’s own bankrupt  OGX   OGX  is an example of that — more oil means more investments and debt. Considering that Petrobras also has the world’s largest corporate spending program, valued at $237 billion, it also means more trouble.  
One of the reasons behind this tragic reverse in fortune is, of course, related to the problem of price control in Brazil. Due to the government’s intervention in gas prices, which have been frozen to control Brazil’s spiraling inflation (currently at 6%),  Petrobras buys oil at a price higher than the price it can be sold for in the country .  
Add to that the company’s obligation to participate in exploration projects in Brazil, in spite of such projects viability — or the lack of it — in some cases, protectionist policies that keep investors away, a weaker real, a  39% drop in quarterly profit and the fact that Petrobras has become the government’s machine for keeping up with allies by distributing jobs to people who are experts in government’s maneuvers but have no understanding of the oil industry whatsoever and the result is, well, what we are seeing today.  
Now, the question that ultimately will be weighed by some, whether realistic or not, is: can Petrobras face the same destiny of OGX, which was supposed to be the cash cow of former billionaire  Eike Batista’s  group of commodities companies?  
According to Macroaxis , a personalized investment management start-up firm based in San Francisco, California, that calculates the value at risk, expected returns and volatility of more than 150,000 tradeable stock in more than 30 nations, there is a chance for that. A 32.4% chance, to be precise, which is Petrobras’ probability of bankruptcy.  
This from Macroaxis:  

  For stocks, probability of bankruptcy is normalized value of Z-Score. For funds and  ETFs  it is derived from a multi-factor model developed by Macroaxis. The score is used to predict probability of a firm or a fund going into bankruptcy or experiencing financial distress within next 24 months. Unlike Z-Score, probability of bankruptcy is the value between 0 and 100 indicating the actual probability the firm will be distressed in the next two fiscal years. 
 
The Z-Score is a formula for predicting bankruptcy first published in 1968 by Edward I. Altman, an Assistant Professor of Finance at  New York University . The formula can be used to predict the probability that a company will go into bankruptcy within two years, or may default in debt, by calculating multiple corporate income and balance sheet values.  
Petrobras’ probability of bankruptcy, based on Macroaxis’ analysis, is significantly higher than that of the oil industry and some of its big players. Exxon Mobil’s probability of bankruptcy is a mere 0.86%. PetroChina, another state controlled oil and gas behemoth, has a probability of bankruptcy of 12.27%, according to Macroaxis. Petrobras Argentina, a subsidiary of Petrobras listed in Buenos Aires Stock Exchange Merval Index, has a  probability of bankruptcy of 85.06%.  
“We see Petrobras’ leverage to be at nearly peak levels in 2013 and 2014, significantly higher than those of its industry peers and only likely to decline in 2015 and beyond,” Thomas Coleman, a Moody’s senior vice-president, said in a statement. “Successful execution on its ambitious capital program and delivery on aggressive production targets will be key to reducing leverage in the next few years and to stabilizing the rating outlook.”  
Moody’s specifically cited “the growing government intervention in Petrobras” as one of the reasons for the agency to reassess its ratings. An example of that are the extra refineries added to Petrobras’ investment plan by request of the then President Lula da Silva. In a triumphant interview to newspaper Valor Economico published in 2009, the politician — who’s Dilma Rousseff’s, the current President of Brazil, mentor — said bluntly that Petrobras did not want to build refineries and also had a plan for meager investments in 2008. “Then I called the company’s Board,” said Lula. Outcome of his call: not one but four refineries were added to its investment plan, and oil production forecasts were revised up for fantastic numbers.  
Only one of these refineries, located in the Northeastern state of Pernambuco, will start operating on November 2014 (at 14 months delay compared to the previous goal) to a cost of $17 billion, $3 billion more than forecasted and $13 billion more than the sum estimated by Lula da Silva.  
“It’s called populism. And this is the Lula cost. Yes, because the result of this populism becomes a loss to shareholders, the government and the private sector. And the full responsible for this is the former President and Petrobras’ board of directors that agreed to his demands,” columnist Carlos Alberto Sardenberg wrote in 2012 piece for O Globo newspaper.  
Just to paraphrase one of Lula da Silva’s most famous quotes, never before in the history of Brazil had a company shrunk so fast. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/andersonantunes/2013/12/10/what-are-the-chances-of-brazils-state-owned-oil-giant-petrobras-to-go-bankrupt-32-to-be-precise/