         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 5:59PM
             | 151 views
     
		 $34M Refund For 1M Credit Card Customers Using GE Capital's CareCredit 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Deceptive credit card practices have forced yet another firm to issue millions of dollars in refunds to consumers.  
The nation’s consumer financial protection agency is forcing GE Capital Bank and its subsidiary, CareCredit, to refund up to $34.1 million to consumers who were victims of deceptive credit card enrollment tactics at doctors’ and dentists’ offices around the country.  
CareCredit is a credit card offered at more than 175,000 doctor’s offices across the country. Consumers signed up at the offices thinking the credit cards were interest free, but they were actually accruing interest–of 26.99–that kicked in if the full balance was not paid at the end of a promotional period.  
“Medical debt is already a big problem for many Americans. Poor credit card transparency should not be making the problem even worse,” said CFPB Director Richard Cordray. “Deferred-interest products can be risky for consumers in the best of circumstances, and today’s action ensures that CareCredit will no longer profit from consumer confusion.  
There are about 4 million active CareCredit cardholders; it is the largest issuer of consumer health-care financing in the U.S. Consumers who are owed a refund will be contacted by either the CFPB or GE Capital Bank.  
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau found some consumers were not being given adequate explanation of the terms of the card because they were offered by poorly trained doctor offices staff rather than official representatives of CareCredit.  
The CFPB also said some consumers did not receive copies of the actual CareCredit agreements and instead had to rely only on the oral explanations given by the service provider or office staff.  
In addition to issuing refunds, CareCredite will also now have to contact most consumers within 72 hours of the initial transaction to explain the product to them over the phone.  For certain transactions of more than $1,000, consumers will enroll directly through a CareCredit rep.  
GE Capital Bank said about the enforcement, “CareCredit is a responsible lender with consistently high customer satisfaction ratings and repeat usage. We have been cooperating with the CFPB and committed to providing enhanced education for health are providers and consumers.”  
This isn’t the first firm the CFPB has gone after deceptive credit card practices. In September it ordered  JPMorgan Chase  to refund $309 million to credit card customers it said were charged for services they never received. In 2011, Capital One Bank was forced to refund approximately $140 million to two million customers and pay an additional $25 million penalty after misleading consumers about credit card benefits.  





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Defend Against Abusive Debt Collectors
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Halah Touryalai 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    JPMorgan's Day Just Got Worse: Must Refund $309M To Credit Card Customers
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Halah Touryalai 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/halahtouryalai/2013/12/10/34m-refund-for-1m-credit-card-customers-using-ge-capitals-carecredit/