         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 5:40PM
             | 2,640 views
     
		 The Credit Markets Are Broken Due To The Disastrous 867 Page Volcker Rule 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    2 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Wall Street (Photo credit: Ruanon) 
   
 
There’s a mountain of blame to go around for the unveiling of the 867 page Volcker Rule on trading by  Wall Street  investment banks and commercial banks. I blame President Obama, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, five regulatory agencies, the lobbyists for Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan  Chase   Chase  for allowing a rule dealing with proprietary trading on Wall Street to be totally unreadable, and to include some 1800 questions attached that have still not been answered. I’m told this afternoon by one of the major firms that the controversy over the Volcker rule has caused the market makers to pull back and go on strike. This is definitely not healthy for the liquidity of the marketplace, especially on the possible eve of a change in monetary policy.  
The fish stinks from the head. President Obama has always been conflicted about the titans of finance. He calls them “fat cats,” but he spends trillions bailing them out. He takes their money to get re-elected, but he has no real understanding of what role Wall Street should play in benefiting the American economy. He doesn’t get that a reasonable amount of proprietary trading by banks is essential to the liquidity of the  markets . Prohibiting this trading is an overreach in the punishment being meted out to the firms that brought us to the precipice in 2008. I’d bet Obama has no real understanding of what he is doing. Plus we look like fools to the rest of the globe’s financiers that we have created such an inconceivable mountain of uncertainty.  
I’d guess that 100 pages of the 867 are fairly tough on the financial community, and the other 767 pages are full of loopholes for the well-paid lawyers from Sullivan   Cromwell, Cleary Gottlieb, Skadden Arps and the other $1400 an hour attorneys to interpret favorably for Goldman Sachs and  J.P. Morgan   J.P. Morgan  Chase. After all, trying to dice the nuances of proprietary trading, market making and hedging positions is going to be a bonanza for the legal eagles, who will have to be wise beyond their degrees from Harvard, Yale, Columbia and NYU law schools.  
Because of this impending regulatory disaster, I am told, the inventories of stocks and bonds held by all the major dealers have been substantially reduced in light of the uncertain risks associated with a small regulation that has the physical appearance of the Encyclopedia Britannica. If dealer inventories have plunged, it means buyers in the market cannot get their orders filled. It means the sellers can’t find the buyers to take on their positions. It means the kind of running to hide from fallout that could precipitate some kind of crisis.  
I hear the rumbles of outrage across Wall Street that the government simply has no idea what it is doing. Too many cooks screwed up the stew. An important reform has been made so complex, so cumbersome that it’s liable to cause a downdraft. After all, if you are being told you cannot use your own capital to buy a stock position, it means your hands are tied. Blame the architects of this rotten regulation; from the White House to the Treasury, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the CFTC and giant banks themselves. In short, everyone that had anything to do with an 867 page regulation with 1800 unresolved questions has not created a necessary reform, but instead a monstrous traffic obstacle. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Volcker Rule Will Not Work
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Ted Kaufman 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Volcker Rule Winners: Securities Lawyers, Private Equity Firms
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Daniel Fisher 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/robertlenzner/2013/12/10/the-credit-markets-are-broken-due-to-the-disastrous-867-page-volcker-rule/