         

         


         
             Forbes Asia 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 5:25PM
             | 173 views
     
		 Thai Political Crisis - Best News Sources 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
I’ll confess to fatigue with Thai politics. For at least the past six years, it seems like Thailand has been cycling and recycling through the same painful hoops and yet not moving any closer to a stable, democratic form of government.  
But I know that visitors to Thailand are very nervous, not to mention the 20-something foreign governments that have issued (so far low-level) travel warnings. So I’ll provide some reliable news sources to keep up to date.  I already introduced some of the  principal political personalities and precipitating events in  an earlier post .  
But first … So where are we now?  
As tens of thousands of  anti-government demonstrators  marched in the Bangkok streets on Monday, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra dissolved the House of Representatives and called for a general election in 60 days. That would be February 2, 2014.  
King Bhumiphol endorsed the decree and all seems to be in line with the constitution. Per this 2007 constitution, at least the 11 th  in 81 years, Yingluck and her cabinet planned to run a caretaker government until the elections. (The first constitution,  promulgated in 1932 by those who the overthrew the absolute monarchy, was so special that it’s marked by a national holiday which was celebrated on Tuesday.)  
No end in sight  
So are the anti-government protesters satisfied? What about members of the opposition Democrat Party who resigned en masse Monday and joined in the demonstrations? Predictably: no.  After all, the Democrats would again lose any general election. The leader of the anti-government demonstrators, former Democrat MP Suthep Thaugsuban,  wants Yingluck to resign immediately, has ordered his followers to remain at rally sites until at least Thursday and still wants to install his unelected “people’s council”.  
“From now on,  we will administer this country on our own and will install our people’s council and people’s government,”  he says.  Sixty days wouldn’t be anywhere enough to eradicate all traces of the “Thaksin regime,”  somehow create an election system cleansed of vote-buying and overhaul the national police force. The police force?  The police tend to sympathize with the lower-class forces of the United Front in Defense of Democracy (UDD). The UDD support Yingluck and her Pheu Thai Party, if just out of loyalty to her ousted brother Thaksin Shinawatra. Suthep now wants between eight and fifteen months to get the job done.  
Good grief. And all that worked out so well when the military overthrew the now exiled Thaksin  in September 2006. This time, the Army doesn’t want to get involved in anybody’s coup. Sad to say, Thailand is heading into a period of instability that will last for at least  a few  months–just as the prime tourist season is upon us.  
Suvannabhumi airport traffic  
For visitors: If you’re heading to Suvannabhumi Airport, the government is warning that from mid-town you should allow four hours to get there, due to traffic jams. A better idea: hump your bags and take the Skytrain to the Airport Link train that starts at Phayathai Skytrain station. Getting to Don Mueang Airport could be snarly too if crowds persist around Victory Monument.  
Monday’s marches and current gatherings, notably at Democracy Monument and Government House, have been peaceful. In the wee hours of Wednesday morning, from a stage set up at the monument, a band was playing to an appreciative audience.  
(However, if you can pass for a Thai, avoid wearing red clothing, which is favored by pro-government factions. You’ll notice that people at these rallies and milling around town are wearing the red, white and blue of the anti-government protesters, often with a dash of yellow).  
Both Democracy Monument and Government House are close to tourist sites and accommodations. The protesters also have been congregating around Victory Monument.  In the last few evenings, the downtown Bangkok streets and sidewalks of Sukhumvit and Silom roads have been less populated than usual but they have still been safe and friendly with food and souvenir vendors.  The Skytrain and subway systems have been running as usual.  
At least the protesters have only  occupied the grounds  of Government House, which houses the offices of the prime minister and cabinet. In 2008, when another government allied with exiled Thaksin Shinawatra was in office, the anti-government protesters occupied this building for several months, trashing computers and records. Present-day protesters on Monday de-occupied the huge government complex 20 kilometers north of the central city on Chaeng Wattana Road. According to the news today, they stole some computers and trashed some offices but no word yet  about the state of the Immigration Department, which is housed in that complex.  
Useful resources for tourists and newcomers to Thailand  
How to keep up with the crisis? 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/susancunningham/2013/12/10/thai-political-crisis-best-news-sources/