         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 5:09PM
             | 133 views
     
		 Crowdfunding (Kickstarter) Sounded Like A Perfect Way To Get My Book Published 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
For years I longed for a dog, but career, travel and commitments didn’t allow me the time. Then last year I decided I’d do it, and found an amazing little maltipoo I just loved at first sight.  
Problem was, I didn’t know anything about training dogs and stressed about her toilet training, pulling at the leash, and constant barking at kids.  
I took her to  @Petsmart  (see my article:  Suddenly I’m In The Market For Everything Dog   ) and soon she was pretty civilized.  
Then I decided to launch a website called  Dear Daisy Mae  so people could write in about their dogs (and some wrote questions about pot belly pigs and gerbils, too). I assembled some experts to help answer the questions.  
One day a reader of  Dear Daisy Mae asked on Twitter  if there was going to be a book with all these questions and their answers in it. Hmmm. I’d love to write that book and thought maybe I could do it through crowdfunding.  
I had heard a first-hand story about crowdfunding from our tour director in Prague. At lunch one day, Monica told me she and her  husband love traveling with their autistic son and they learned a lot of things that could help with similar children. So they decided to  write a book  and they paid for it with crowd-funding through a site called  Kickstarter .    They succeeded and the book is a hit in the niche market of parents who travel with autistic kids.  
We thought (my Art Director, creative man and I) could give Kickstarter a try. We guesstimated costs, including fees for getting the right people involved: a great editor, a layout artist, printer, etc. Came out to about $20,000.  
We logged onto Kickstarter where you have to go through many of the same steps of a Book Proposal. (Now that I think about it, this  was  a book proposal):  
 
  Define the Project  
  Figure out your major focus  
  Figure out your exact goal and decide whether it’s realistic  
  Create Rewards for your backers, and make each level interesting  
  How are you going to find your audience  
  A video about your Project  
  A business bank account and a PayPal account and a write-up about your Project.  
  THEN you have to promote it.  
 
Kickstarter suggests  only 30 days on their site  and if you don’t get the full funding, nobody’s pledges will be charged to their accounts.  
We asked for  $20,000  and have  so far received $535 . Not good. Daisy Mae has her own website, Twitter and Facebook accounts and does pretty well. But on Kickstarter, not so much. Just 2.7% of the objective.  
We did this video:  Kickstarter Project Dear Daisy Mae – The Book . This is how the presentation looks, with incentives:  Kickstarter Presentation  
My tips to you, if you want to try doing this:  
1.  Think about your target market  and how you’re going to reach it. We wanted to get to new dog owners on an email list or on a website. Should have lined up about 10 groups ahead of time.  
2. If you’re  emailing  your own contact list, you  have to do it several times  and ask people for referrals (and their ideas on promoting the book).  
3. The Project should  sound like a mission  and give everyone updates on your progress along the way.  
If you have some advice for us, I’d love to hear it as we still have a week left to test some strategy. Or if you’ve had success,  I’d like to know what you’ve done.  
Thank you! 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Suddenly I'm In The Market For Everything Dog
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Lois Geller 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    If Direct Mail Is Dying, It's Sure Taking Its Time About It
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Lois Geller 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    6 New Business Ideas, All Free
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Lois Geller 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/loisgeller/2013/12/10/crowdfunding-kickstarter-sounded-like-a-perfect-way-to-get-my-book-published/