	 Royal Mail workers  union backs a  landmark  deal 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The union said the deal was good for the company, customers and the employees 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Royal Mail reports jump in profits 

		 


											




	


	





	 Royal Mail workers  strike cancelled 

		 


											




	


	





	 Royal Mail workers to go on strike 

		 


								 
	 
                       The Communication Workers  Union (CWU) will recommend to postal staff that they accept a new pay offer that it described as  landmark . 
         It is worth 9.06% over three years and gives workers a one-off pensionable lump sum of £200 before Christmas,  
         The agreement means the threat of a Christmas strike is averted. 
         Royal Mail s boss Moya Greene said it would provide  long term stability and certainty for Royal Mail, our employees and our customers . 
         She added:  Working together we can create a strong foundation for the continued success of our business. 
         CWU deputy general secretary, Dave Ward, said:  The agreement breaks new ground in the UK by incorporating extensive legally binding protections for employees alongside a commitment to improve industrial stability.  
         This is a good deal for the company and customers as well as for employees, but investors should be clear that this agreement commits them to growth and there will be no tolerance to a race to the bottom on services and jobs. 
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 Royal Mail  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 09 Dec 2013, 11:27 ET  
		
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						597.00
						p 
						 				
							 + 
							 +2.50 					
						 
						 		
							 + 
							 +0.42 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





Stability 
	       The deal gives postal workers a 3% rise backdated to April this year, another 3% from April next year and 2.8% in 2015-16. 
         The union says it includes guarantees that the newly privatised Royal Mail will give workers legal protections on their terms and conditions, ensuring the Royal Mail will not outsource, sell or transfer any part of its business until a legal review takes place in 2019. 
         In addition, the CWU says it sets out improved industrial stability and safeguards pensions, as well as staving off the threat of the company employing new postal workers on inferior terms and conditions.  
         Another part of the agreement is for the two sides to work to create industrial stability with a re-launch of industrial relations arrangements and the introduction of mediation procedures alongside new governance arrangements.  
         Union members will vote on the recommendations in January 2014. 
   Privatised 
	       The threat of industrial action was seen as one of the risks to the company when it went public in October. The government sold a 60% stake, of which staff received 10%. 
         The privatisation was opposed by the union and the share offer was seen as an attempt to smooth labour relations. 
         Shares have risen more than 80% since it first listed, prompting criticism that it was sold off too cheaply. 
  	

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25306799#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa