         

         


         
             Personal Finance 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 8:39PM
             | 10 views
     
		 Nine Financial Resolutions For Millennials 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
The New Year represents a new leaf, a time to break old habits and begin new ones.  The New Year is the time for resolutions that can range from the ridiculous (becoming fluent in Arabic) to the practical (learning how to drive stick shift).  Over the years, I’ve found that my concrete resolutions are more successful than my abstract ones.  In that vein of thinking, here are nine simple resolutions that will put you on the path to financial prosperity.  
 
  
    Make your piggy bank happy in 2014 with these easy financial resolutions.  (Photo credit: Fortyseven)
   
    Make your piggy bank happy in 2014 with these easy financial resolutions.  (Photo credit: Fortyseven) 
   
 
1. Evaluate Expenditures  
First things first, commit a few hours to accessing how you spend your money.  Obviously, some things like car payments, paying back student loans or rent will be fixed.  But for everything else, it can be eye opening to see where your money actually goes.  
“I think of personal finance like dieting,” explains Erin Lowry, finance blogger and founder of the hit site, Broke Millennial . “If you do a crash diet, you will lose a ton of weight and that is great but odds are, it is going to come back because you haven’t fixed the baseline problem.”  
Figure out two or three of your “baseline problems” and go from there.  Need to have manicure to look presentable at the office but didn’t realize your weekly habit costs upwards of $500 a year?  Invest in some polish and a nail kit and do them yourself. Addicted to caffeine? If you are buying a standard $2.50 cup of coffee each day, that can add up to around $1,000 a year.  Once you see where your money goes, you can look for little ways to trim the fat and pad your savings account with that extra money.  
2. Learn How To Cook  
Making food for yourself is one of the easiest ways to cut unnecessary costs.  Everyone loves going out to eat, but when you are ordering in every meal it is time for a reality check.  
“Eating out because you can’t cook is a really common [mistake that millennials make],” says Lowry. “Personally, I think anyone can learn basic cooking skills.”  
The finance guru didn’t know how to cook when she first moved to New York, but after a few mishaps in the kitchen, she figured out the basics.  
“Now, not only it is healthier for me in terms of my body, but it is much healthier for my wallet,” says Lowry.  
3. Bring Your Own Lunch  
Similarly to learning how to cook, bringing a bagged lunch to work can dramatically decrease your weekly expenditures.  
“Bagged lunches is one my biggest frugal tips.  For me personally, it saves me between $110 and $150 a month to cook my own lunch,” says Lowry.  The millennial does her cooking on the weekend, planning in advance so that during the week she doesn’t have to spend unnecessary time in the kitchen. “I don’t have to come home after work and worry about what I am going to eat. I have a bunch of meals frozen or sitting in my fridge, ready to go.”  
Some food for thought: reheating and defrosting is faster than Seamless at a third of the cost. So get cooking!  
4. Be Your Own Handyman 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Worst New Year's Resolutions For Your Wallet
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Jenna Goudreau 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    You Can Get Richer Pinching Pennies Like Warren Buffett
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Deborah L. Jacobs 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Open A 401(k) And Win The Retirement Lottery
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Alexandra Talty 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexandratalty/2013/12/10/nine-financial-resolutions-for-millennials/