	 Shop prices  might rise  in independent Scotland 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Asda says an independent Scotland would be a less attractive place to invest 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Scotland s Future 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Carney  welcomes  currency talks 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Salmond rejects EU membership fears 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Report: White Paper debate 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Referendum blueprint unveiled 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       Some of the UK s biggest supermarkets may consider increasing their prices north of the border, should Scotland vote for independence next year. 
         Both Asda and Morrisons said the cost of doing business was higher in Scotland than in the rest of the UK. 
         The chief executive of Asda has also said an independent Scotland might be a less attractive place to invest. 
         However, the Scottish government said proposed lower taxes would make Scotland more competitive. 
         The cost of doing business in different parts of the country does vary,  said Andy Clarke, the chief executive of Asda. 
         Supermarkets face higher distribution costs in Scotland, in addition to a public health levy on shops that sell alcohol and tobacco. 
         That levy, on business rates, costs the supermarkets around £30m a year. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 
	 Start Quote 
It is a statement of the bloomin' obvious that businesses behave differently in different countries 
End Quote 


			 
		 
	 Robert Peston 	 Business editor 
	 

	 
	
	 
		 
			 Read more from Robert 
		 
	        Why should customers in Cardiff subsidise those in Aberdeen?  a spokesman for Morrisons told the BBC. 
   'Pressure' 
	       Andy Clarke suggested Asda, owned by the US giant Walmart, might be more reluctant to expand in Scotland, if it becomes an independent country. 
         A  Yes  vote in 2014 could result in Scotland being a less attractive investment proposition for business and put further pressure on our costs,  he said. 
         Neither Asda nor Morrisons said they had any plans to raise prices in an independent Scotland. 
         However, the Financial Times said one of the big four supermarkets had confirmed it might put prices up. 
   Prosperous 
	       Tesco said it had no comment to make, and said it had not spoken to the Financial Times about the issue. 
         Likewise Sainsbury said it had  no comment . 
         Commenting on the reports, Scotland s Rural Affairs Secretary Richard Lochhead said: 
         The reality is that independence will provide the means to create a prosperous economy and better business environment, one that will deliver benefits for consumers and retailers alike. 
         Supermarkets operate in competition with each other, and you can be sure if one supermarket chain has higher prices - for whatever reason - then their competitors will not be slow to take advantage of that. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25299332#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa