	 Blockbuster to close remaining stores 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Blockbuster originally went bust in January 2013 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Blockbuster to close more stores 

		 


											




	


	





	 Four Blockbuster stores to shut 

		 


											




	


	





	 Blockbuster to close 72 stores 

		 


											 
	 
                       Blockbuster, the DVD and games rental chain that went into administration in January, is to close down completely after failing to attract a buyer. 
         Administrators Moorfields Corporate Recovery said all the remaining 91 UK stores, employing 808 people, would have to close.  
         Blockbuster went into administration for a second time in October and has been closing outlets ever since. 
         All stores will have ceased operations by 16 December, Moorfields said. 
         All remaining stock will be sold by Sunday 15 December, with up to 90% discount. 
         It is with regret that we have to make today s announcement, we appreciate this is a difficult time for all concerned and would like to thank staff for their professionalism and support over the past month,  said joint administrators Simon Thomas and Nick O Reilly. 
         Unfortunately, we were unable to secure a buyer for the group as a going concern and as a result had to take the regrettable action to close the remaining stores. 
   
   

     Blockbuster s parent company has been closing stores in the US 
   
       Mr O Reilly told BBC Radio 5 live that the timing of Blockbuster s closure, shortly before Christmas, was  purely coincidental . 
         He added:  We really did try our best to find a buyer, but that, unfortunately, hasn t proved possible. 
         The rapid rise of online film streaming offered by the likes of Lovefilm and Netflix made Blockbuster s video and DVD business model practically obsolete. 
         The most recent closures follow on from previous closure announcements in November. 
         Blockbuster, the trading name of TS Operations, is currently owned by private equity firm Gordon Brothers Europe. 
         Moorfields said high business rates had contributed to the video company s demise.    
         Before its troubles began, Blockbuster had 528 stores. 
         Blockbuster is one of several High Street names to have been affected by online competition, including camera chain Jessops, music and DVD group HMV, and electrical chain Comet. 
   
                         Are you a Blockbuster employee? Have you been affected by the store closures? Send us your comments using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25345257#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa