	 G4S and Serco lose tagging contracts 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Electronic monitoring of offenders gives authorities the ability to track their whereabouts 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 G4S boss  sorry  for overcharging 

		 


											




	


	





	 Probe of tagging contracts begins 

		 


											




	


	





	 What does it take to break GPS tags? 

		 


								 
	 
                       Private security firms G4S and Serco have been stripped of responsibility for tagging criminals in the UK. 
         It follows allegations they charged the government for tagging people who were either dead or in jail. 
         The monitoring contracts will instead be handed to Capita by the end of the financial year, Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said. 
         He said the rival firm would continue to use Serco and G4S s equipment. 
         Capita is bidding to take on the contracts permanently. 
         Under these arrangements, Capita will be using the systems and equipment of G4S and Serco,  Mr Gralying said.  
         But the two companies will no longer have a direct role in delivering the service on the ground. 
         He added:  This signals a fresh start for electronic monitoring that brings us a step closer to introducing the most advanced tagging system in the world. 
   'Dangerous experiments' 
	       Ashley Almanza, chief executive of G4S told a committee of MPs last month his company had failed to  tell the difference between right and wrong  when dealing with the contracts. 
         Serco chairman Alistair Lyons said it was  ethically wrong  to overcharge the government.  
         Prison reform campaigners the Howard League said it was  surreal  ministers were still allowing private companies to bid for security contracts. 
         Tagging is a small part of a bigger picture of private security corporations being far better at winning contracts than keeping the public safe, with increased crime resulting in increased profits,  director of campaigns Andrew Neilson said. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 G4S in 2012  
		 
	
	 
	 
      £7.3bn turnover  
      Pre-tax profit: £516m  
      Quarter of turnover relates to government contracts  
      Half of business in Europe  
      Value of government contracts:  £394m 
   
	 
	        From prisons to the probation service, the Ministry of Justice s dangerous experiments with privatisation should end. 
         In summer, the MoJ revealed that the private security firms had overcharged the government by  tens of millions of pounds . The figure emerged following an audit by accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
         It found that overcharging began at least as early as 2005 when the current contracts began. 
         The Serious Fraud Office has launched an investigation and both firms have said they are  co-operating fully . 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-25348086#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa