	 Facebook develops  sympathise  button 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     In future you could  sympathise  with a status instead of  like  it 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Two million stolen passwords online 

		 


											




		


	





	 How not to break law on social media  Watch 

		 


								 
	 
                       Facebook has devised a  sympathise  button as an alternative to the  like  button for use in certain situations. 
         If a user selected a negative emotion from Facebook s list of feelings in a status update then the  like  button would change to  sympathise . 
         A Facebook engineer said at a company event that the button had been created as part of an internal project. 
         But he later went on to say there were no plans to launch it at the moment. 
         Facebook were holding a  compassion research day  where members of the public and researchers are invited along to  improve [Facebook s] understanding of the driving forces and benefits of compassion . 
   Hackathon 
	       In a question and answer session an audience member asked if Facebook had thought about changing the  like  button when it felt inappropriate in relation to what a user had posted, for example when someone had written that their parents had died. 
         Dan Muriello, a software engineer at Facebook, said another engineer had worked on a hackathon project  a while back  to change the  like  button to  sympathise . 
         It would not work for every post he said but if you tag a status with certain emotions from a fixed list then the  like  button would change. 
         A lot of people were very excited. But we made a decision that it was not exactly the right time to launch that product. Yet,  he said. 
         Facebook hackathons  are events where the company s engineers get together and brainstorm new ideas. 
         Facebook Chat and the  friend suggester  facility both were developed from work at these events. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-25299597#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa