	 Chinese export growth accelerates in November 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     A recovery in its manufacturing and exports sectors is seen as key to China growth 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Cameron holds key China talks 

		 


											




		


	





	 Which way for China s economy?  Watch 

		 


											




		


	





	 China s changing economy in 60 seconds  Watch 

		 


								 
	 
                       China s exports rose more than expected in November adding to signs of a rebound in the world s second-largest economy. 
         Shipments rose 12.7% from a year ago, up from a 5.6% rise in October. Most analysts had forecast a growth of 7%.  
         Last week, data showed manufacturing activity in China grew at its fastest pace in 18 months in November. 
         The jump in exports was triggered by strong demand from important markets such as the US and European Union.  
         There are signs that the global activity and trade cycle is gaining momentum, driven by the recovery in high income countries,  said Louis Kuijs, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
Generally, hot money flows are seen through lower imports and higher exports, and the less than expected imports in November and higher than expected exports precisely illustrate this point 
End Quote 
	 Li Huiyong 
	 Shenyin Wanguo Securities 

		        China s exporters are benefiting from that. 
         Mr Kuijs added that China s export growth was likely to get a further boost in coming months from improving global demand.  
         Over the past few months Beijing has also announced stimulus measures aimed at helping exporters and boosting domestic demand.  
         These include tax breaks for small businesses and reduced fees for exporters, which some analysts said had also started to have an impact on the trade numbers. 
         Meanwhile, data released on Sunday showed that imports rose 5.3% during the month, from a year earlier. 
         While that was weaker than forecasts, analysts said it was not a cause for concern.  
   Capital inflow concerns  
	       However, the robust exports numbers have triggered concerns that the data may not be a true indicator of the sector s health.  
         There were similar worries earlier this year amid speculation that some Chinese exporters may be overstating their shipments in an attempt to bypass restrictions on bringing funds into the country. 
         That had prompted authorities, who keep a tight grip on capital flows in and out of country, to introduce fresh steps to control any illegal flows. 
   
   

     There have been worries over using trade deals to bring in cash into China 
   
       In May, China s foreign exchange regulator, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), said it would increase its scrutiny of export invoices and impose tougher penalties on firms providing false data. 
         Some analysts said the latest figures may have been distorted by capital inflows disguised as trade deals. 
         As China s economic fundamentals stabilise and reform pushes on, the better prospects are attracting massive hot money back,  said Li Huiyong, analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities. 
         Generally, hot money flows are seen through lower imports and higher exports, and the less than expected imports in November and higher than expected exports precisely illustrate this point. 
         However, some others were of the view the latest data was unlikely to have been inflated, not least because of the stricter rules unveiled earlier this year. 
         While there may be issues with trade credit, it is nowadays less easy for companies to  make up  exports, given the tighter monitoring since May,  said Mr Kuijs of RBS. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25295700#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa