

NEW YORK  Dec 9 (Reuters) - A federal appeals court said the
U.S. government had waited too long to prosecute three former
General Electric Co bankers for conspiring to defraud
cities in a municipal bond bid rigging scheme, and ordered the
case to be dismissed. 
Monday's ruling by a panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in New York was issued 13 days after the court reversed
the May 2012 convictions of the three bankers. The 2-1 decision, which a dissenting judge called
"misguided," is a setback for government efforts to patrol the
$3.7 trillion municipal bond market, including when cities and
towns might be facing financial harm long after the purported
corruption took place. More than one dozen people have pleaded guilty in a federal
probe, and several companies have settled civil claims. GE on
Friday reached an $18.25 million settlement of bid rigging
claims by investors, and in December 2011 reached a $70 million
accord with federal and state regulators. The three former GE bankers, Steven Goldberg, Dominick
Carollo and Peter Grimm, were released from prison on Nov. 27,
according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons. A U.S. Department of Justice spokesman was not immediately
available for comment. NO OVERT ACTS The case against Goldberg, Carollo and Grimm focused on
guaranteed investment contracts, which let municipalities earn
interest on money raised from bond sales until they are ready to
spend on local projects. Prosecutors said that from August 1999 to May 2004, the men
gave kickbacks to three brokers, among them UBS PaineWebber, to
help win auctions for the contracts, even if it meant GE would
make artificially low interest payments. A Manhattan federal jury convicted the defendants of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and defraud the United States.
Goldberg was sentenced to four years in prison, and Carollo and
Grimm to three years each. But in their appeal, the defendants claimed that the July
27, 2010 indictment came too late, where the statutes of
limitations are five years for conspiracy and six years for
conspiracy to defraud the United States by violating tax laws. The government countered that the statute of limitations
continued to run while GE was paying uncompetitive rates. But Circuit Judge Dennis Jacobs wrote for the majority on
the appeals panel that this would prolong the conspiracy until
long after "overt acts" had ended, and that there had to be a
cutoff point. "The government's position must be that a conspiracy
continues so long as a stream of anticipated payments contains
an element of profit," Jacobs wrote, in a decision joined by
Circuit Judge Chester Straub. "But that proves too much." "PROLONGED" HARM SEEN Circuit Judge Amalya Kearse dissented. She said it "seems to
me misguided" that the majority found no sign of "continued
concerted activity" that could harm society over the long term. "The bid rigging made it possible for the provider
coconspirators to win contracts that would enable them to pay
interest to the municipalities at substandard rates - something
no single bidder could accomplish alone - and allowed the
co-conspirators to succeed in a scheme sufficiently complex to
allow various coconspirators to enjoy their illegal gains at
different times and for prolonged periods," she wrote. Carollo's lawyer James Smart said he is pleased with the
decision. Goldberg's lawyer David Frederick and Grimm's lawyer
Howard Heiss were not immediately available for comment. The case is U.S. v. Grimm et al, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, Nos. 12-4310, 12-4365 and 12-4371. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/ux78IaOe0cg/story01.htm