

WASHINGTON  Dec 9 (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate will consider
President Barack Obama's nominee to head the regulator that
oversees taxpayer-owned mortgage financiers Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac this week, two Democratic Senate aides
said, and he is expected to win confirmation. 
A vote on Democratic U.S. Representative Mel Watt's
nomination to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency could come
as early as Tuesday, one of the aides said. A change in leadership at the FHFA was likely to affect the
trillion dollar U.S. mortgage market. Watt, a North Carolina
Democrat, is considered more in line with the White House's
economic goals than the current acting director, Edward DeMarco. Analysts say his appointment could mean a reversal of some
of DeMarco's policies, including a rule that prohibited Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the principal balance on
delinquent loans. DeMarco has led the FHFA in an acting capacity
since 2009. The Senate failed to advance Watt's nomination in
October. He was backed by 56 of the 100 senators, below the 60
votes he would have needed to be confirmed to the post. But the
Senate changed its rules last month to allow nominees like Watt
to be approved with only a simple majority of 51 votes. The filibuster marked the first time since the Civil War
that the Senate denied a sitting member of Congress a  executive
branch position. But since he is supported by all 55 members of
the Democratic Senate caucus, Watt should be easily confirmed
this time. Watt is expected to become an influential voice in the
debate over the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have drawn $187.5 billion from
the U.S. Treasury since they were seized by the government in
2008 during the financial crisis. But with the housing market recovery, the two companies are
now posting record profits and sending billions of dollars in
the form of dividend payments to the Treasury. Both Republicans and Democrats want to wind them down and
take steps to ensure taxpayers are never on the hook again, but
Democrats want to ensure some government support for housing
remains. With Watt at FHFA, the administration could avoid any
awkward political fights when it comes to expanding credit to
borrowers. Analysts expect Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would
increase their refinance activity under his oversight. Watt is a two-decade veteran of the U.S. House of
Representatives and has the support of the Congressional Black
Caucus, of which he is a member. He is also a member of the
House Financial Services Committee, which oversees housing
matters. While in Congress, Watt has pressed for increased
access to credit for minority and low-income consumers. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/Z7REDfkN0q0/story01.htm