         

         


         
             Personal Finance 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 4:54PM
             | 55 views
     
		 Memo To Amazon's Jeff Bezos: Old Is Cool, Too 




             
         

         
             
	                    
	                 	 
	                     
	                     
	                     
							 Next Avenue , Contributor 
	                     
             
         
         
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Photo courtesy of Amazon.com 
 
By Carol LaChapelle,  Next Avenue  Contributor    
Dear Mr. Bezos,  
In your recent in-house memo to your executives at Amazon, you list the reasons why (and how) your company remains loved by its customers. These are nicely summed up as “cool vs. not cool” company practices and attitudes.  
Of the 24 items on the list, one especially caught my eye: “Young is cool.”  
As this maxim doesn’t seem quite as obvious as “Leadership is cool” or “Polite is cool,” I can only guess that it’s meant to be self-evident.  
And I suppose if one is young, it is.  
But for those of us who are not young — including some of your Amazon employees — it may not seem so obvious.  In fact, we not-youngs might hope that you’d consider balancing a self-evident proposition with a more evident one: Old is cool.  
( MORE: How Grown-Ups Can Keep Growing )  
To wit, the evidence:  
1. Old people understand the difference between real and virtual experiences. We use email and Facebook, love the Internet and happily “live chat” and pay our bills on line — all fun, all good. But we know that these are conveniences; they do not replace real-time sensory experiences such as the feel of a summer wind on our old, craggy faces, the scent of baby powder on a new grandchild or the unexpected sight of a burnt-orange sun at dusk.  
2. We do not waste much angst on first-world problems, especially those related to technology. (Sorry, I know this is your game.) When our various geegaws go haywire — as they will — we don’t get our undies in quite the same bundle as do the young.  
We aren’t as dependent on gadgets, I guess. We still own real books, have newspapers delivered in blue plastic sleeves, watch TV on TV sets and talk to friends on landlines. And when we do get in some techno-glitch, we can rely on our neighbors — and, more likely, their kids — to help us out.  
( MORE: How to Grow Old With Vitality and Gusto )  
3. As Confucius advised, most of us have lived in interesting times, all of which translates to lots of good stories . I know, I know. Maybe you don’t want to hear any more about the Vietnam War and the Civil Rights movement, the street protests and assassinations, the financial blunders and political shenanigans. But maybe you should.  
There is something useful in what George Santayna said about those who “cannot remember the past.” 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Craig Ferguson Says We 'Deify' Youth. He's Right.
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Gary Drevitch 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Lost Art Of Conversation And Connection
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Next Avenue 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Why We Should Look Forward To Living To 120 And Beyond
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Next Avenue 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Charity Divide: Boomers Vs. Gen X And Gen Y
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Richard Eisenberg 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/nextavenue/2013/12/03/memo-to-amazons-jeff-bezos-old-is-cool-too/