         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 4:42PM
             | 21 views
     
		 Best Of FORBES: Detroit's Ruling, The Apparel Insider Trading Ring 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
“Federal Judge Steven W. Rhodes gave the go-ahead Tuesday to Detroit’s historic bankruptcy filing, and dashed the hopes of city employees and retirees who hoped state law would protect their pensions” — Micheline Maynard.  Read Detroit Is Eligible For Bankruptcy, And City Pensions Are At Risk.   
“The Eric Martin case seems to indicate that the relatively small and clubby apparel industry has seen its fair share of insider trading, making it a prime target for the Department of Justice and the Securities   Exchange Commission, which have both been aggressively pursuing insider-trading cases involving hedge funds” — Nathan Vardi.  Read Feds Target Apparel-Industry Insider Trading Ring  
“Abercrombie   Fitch CEO Mike Jeffries weathered a spate of bad publicity this past spring, when some ill-advised comments from a 2006 interview found new life on the internet. Now, Jeffries faces more negative headlines, this time at the hands of activist investors rather than everyday shoppers” — Clare O’Connor.  Read Activist Investor: Abercrombie   Fitch Should Boot CEO Jeffries (Yes, The Fat-Shaming Guy)  
“Privacy advocates have long argued that the commercialization of our online data is a worrying trend, but it’s been hard to explain why because the companies who track much of what we do operate in obscurity. That could change now that researchers at Princeton University and Belgium’s KU Leuven have released “bots” that mimic real people across the web to track how they experience the same sites differently as part of a new study” — Parmy Olson.  Read This Landmark Study Could Reveal How The Web Discriminates Against You  
“Today marks the second annual #GivingTuesday, a social-media-powered day of philanthropy following the consumerist excess of Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Launched by New York’s 92nd Street Y, the United Nations Foundation and the Case Foundation, the initiative has been adopted by 10,000 charitable partners worldwide to promote giving in all forms” — Natalie Robehmed.  Read After Black Friday, Give Back With #GivingTuesday  
“It’s easy to forget that The Yacht Week is a business, and when you sell customers the party of a lifetime—and generally deliver—it pays to expect some mishaps” — J.J. Colao.  Read Beyond The Party: Inside The Booming Business Of The Yacht Week  




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/emilycanal/2013/12/03/best-of-forbes-detroits-ruling-the-apparel-insider-trading-ring/