

WASHINGTON  Dec 9 (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission's top accountant on Monday urged accounting
firms to think carefully before acquiring non-audit related
consulting businesses, warning such moves could damage their
independence and credibility. 
"I continue to observe the accounting firms are actively
growing their consultancy practices," said SEC Chief Accountant
Paul Beswick, at an AICPA conference in Washington, D.C. "Such expansion runs the risk of damaging the accountant's
reputation," he said. Lured by consulting' s growth and with audit revenues flat
in the developed world, major accounting groups have been moving
back into consulting, reversing the previous trend. The SEC has raised concerns about its potential for
compromising audit firms' independence. Beswick's comments come
nearly two months after PricewaterhouseCoopers, one of
the world's Big Four audit firms, said it would buy consultancy
Booz  &  Co. Deloitte, another Big Four firm, has bought a slew
of consulting firms, including energy consultants Altos
Management Partners and AJM Petroleum Consultants. Rounding out
the Big Four, KPMG and Ernst  &  Young have
also made several consulting acquisitions in recent years. The shopping spree marks a shift from past practice. The
2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law - approved in the wake of accounting
scandals at companies such as Enron Corp - prompted most big
audit firms to back away from consulting. Aiming to reduce potential conflicts of interest and bolster
auditor independence, one part of that law prohibited accounting
firms from doing consulting work for audit clients. The law left
the door open for firms to continue providing tax services to
audit clients and to offer consulting for non-audit clients. Beswick said he was not trying to single out any one firm. He noted he had reviewed press releases announcing large
non-audit acquisitions by accounting firms over the past year,
and compared those statements to announcements made a decade ago
when firms sold off similar types of businesses. "The public considers audit firms to be gatekeepers, not
consultants," he said. "You earn the public's trust by improving
audit quality ... I'm hopeful that my comments today will
encourage reflection when firms are faced with decisions about
growth." The issue is expected to face further scrutiny by regulators
in the coming year. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Chairman Jim Doty,
speaking at the same conference on Monday, said expansion by
auditors into consulting raises questions about audit quality
and independence. "We need roundtables and task force attention on the
implications of the regeneration of non-audit consulting at the
global firm," Doty said. He told reporters on the sidelines of Monday's event he
hopes to kick off discussions on the topic sometime in 2014. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/yFc3WM5tHS8/story01.htm