         

         


         
             CMO Network 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 4:20PM
             | 21 views
     
		 Inspired B2B Marketing with Xerox's Leah Quesada 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
“Be inspired by the idea that Marketing can move the  business  forward.”  
–Leah Quesada, VP of Marketing, Xerox  
“Very insightful.  I wish my marketing people were that ‘switched on’…”  
–Anonymous marketing leader, referring to an on-stage interview with Leah Quesada of Xerox  
The best marketing is often inspiring, isn’t it?  To get that, you need inspired marketers.  But in too many B2B organizations, marketers come to feel trodden on.  Beat down.  Misunderstood.  Snuffed out.  
Here’s a dose of inspiration for you.  Earlier this year, CEB Marketing profiled how a division of Xerox used commercial insight* and a  Challenger Marketing approach  to revolutionize the way it sells color copiers to schools.  The team, helmed by VP of Marketing, Leah Quesada, turned its standard “product out” marketing approach on its head and instead led with insight – specifically, the fact that kids learn better in color.  
We caught up with Leah last month in Las Vegas at CEB’s Sales and Marketing Summit and asked her a few questions about lessons learned and how she and Xerox are pushing forward with commercial insight.  Check out her answers below.  
 
  “Get your feet wet.”   When we asked Leah her advice for those at the very start of the commercial insight journey, she had three tips:  
 
 
  Get started by forming a small and agile team to conduct an experiment.  
  Exclude  people who are already “experts” in the topic – they won’t be open to new ideas.  
  Be inspired by the idea of Marketing making a difference.  
 
 
 
  “Outside in.”   The results of Xerox’s commercial insight efforts in the education space have been overwhelmingly positive, so much so that Leah has applied the same principles to a new product platform recently announced called Connectkey.  She explains here how commercial insight totally changes the approach to marketing – instead of an “inside out” approach that starts with the product, the team is working “outside in” by starting with an insight about how knowledge workers work today and how Xerox’s new platform can uniquely address the challenges.  
 
 
Want to know more?  Read about Xerox’s insight journey, including impressive business results, by downloading a snapshot case study  here . (just click the “Download Epilogue” button)  
* A commercial insight is our (supplier’s) knowledge of a problem our customers have that they either haven’t realized, haven’t realized the significance of, or have always thought was just a cost of doing business.   




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    #GivingTuesday: From Conspicuous Consumption To Conspicuous Compassion
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Dov Seidman 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Marketers Have It Wrong: Forget Engagement, Consumers Want Simplicity
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Patrick Spenner 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/patrickspenner/2013/12/03/inspired-b2b-marketing-with-xeroxs-leah-quesada/