         

         


         
             Health 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 4:16PM
             | 62 views
     
		 New CDC Report Finds Dangerously High Lead Levels - How To Protect Yourself 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   CDC warns of lead poisoning danger to adults and children. (Photo: wiki media) 
 
Last Friday, hidden in the holiday hoopla, was a statement released by the CDC reporting the identification of 11, 536 reported cases of very high lead levels, which means higher than 40 micrograms per deciliter ( g/dL). Considering that lead levels of more than 10 g/dL are considered elevated and can cause serious ill effects, 40  g/dL is pretty high.  
According to the CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Report , high blood lead levels (BLLs) that persist over time can cause cognitive and memory problems, anemia, kidney damage, hypertension, nerve damage, sperm abnormalities, and a host of other symptoms. High BLLs in the mother or the father can also cause prenatal damage leading to spontaneous abortion and low birthweight. And even lead levels  below  10 g/dL have been shown to cause tremor, decreased kidney function, and raise the risk of hypertension.  
The numbers come from records kept between 2002 and 2011 by the CDC’s Adult Blood Lead Epidemiology and Surveillance (ABLES) program, and actually reflect a reduction in lead exposure in the U.S., the CDC says. Still, the idea that this many people are still getting lead poisoning despite all that we’ve done as a country to reduce lead exposure is alarming. Not only that, but the report details the many ways in which the CDC believes ABLES under-reports lead poisoning data. (Lead toxicity can be asymptomatic, workplaces don’t test, doctors don’t report findings, etc.) The CDC called for “increased efforts to prevent lead exposures,” in both workplaces and living situations.  
For most of us, lead is no longer something we have to worry about. According to the CDC, analysis of tests conducted in 2009-2010 showed that the national geometric mean blood level for lead was just 1.2 micrograms per deciliter. Research and case studies show that the majority of people with very high lead levels were exposed at work in industries such as manufacturing, mining, and construction. Battery manufacturing, bridge and highway construction, and all aspects of painting were at the top of the list.  

  
   Protection at job sites is essential – and often not enforced. (Photo: wiki media) 
 
However, certain common non-work situations also were identified as high-risk: remodeling, shooting firearms – particularly at indoor target ranges – and using certain alternative medicines.  
And when it comes to babies and children, it’s another story. According to the CDC,  more than 4 million  American households have children living in them who are exposed to lead on a regular basis. And half a million (at least) children under 6 have unacceptable BLLs. Last year, the CDC issued  new recommendations  identifying 5 g/dL as the limit above which children are considered lead-exposed. (Previously that limit had been 10 g/dL, the same as for adults.) Young children are at increased risk of lead exposure both because they’re more likely to play in the dirt and because of their smaller body weight. In children, lead can cause learning disabilities, behavior issues, and even mental retardation. And very high BLLs (over 70  g/dL in a child) can cause seizures, coma, and death.  
So what should you do to protect yourself and your family from lead poisoning?  
1. Check Your Home  
Lead-based paint is still the number one hazard for children; the CDC says that 83-86 percent of all American homes built before 1978 still have some lead-based paint present. But the worst offenders are houses built before 1950, which are almost certain to contain lead. Next in line is  lead in water  from antiquated plumbing. Some ceramic dishes also contain lead, as does the solder used in some canned food. The EPA has plenty of information on their  Protect Your Family  website. Here are the California Department of Public Health’s instructions for  testing your home for lead ; most states offer similar programs.  
2. Take Advantage of Free Blood Testing  
Last month, during National Lead Poisoning Prevention Week, the CDC and the EPA joined forces to offer free home and blood testing for children believed to be at risk. Call 1-800-424-LEAD (5323) or go to  leadfreekids.org to find out more.  
Around the country, state departments of health and human services  also offer free local lead testing campaigns. Some lead testing programs are offered through public health clinics or local Head Start preschools. Call your state department of health and human services to find out where testing is offered near you.  
3. Be Careful When Renovating  
According to the EPA, it’s during a seemingly simple home renovation project that many people become exposed to lead. Here are the EPA’s comprehensive  “Renovate Right” guidelines  for lead-safe home repair and remodeling. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/melaniehaiken/2013/12/03/cdc-says-11536-people-have-dangerously-high-lead-levels-what-should-you-do/