         

         


         
             Taxes 
         
         | 
     
        12/03/2013 @ 4:16PM
             | 86 views
     
		 Supreme Court Sides With IRS In Tax Shelter Penalty Case 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Antonin Scalia, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
The U.S. Supreme Court sided with the Internal Revenue Service and socked a taxpayer who used a 1990s tax shelter with a 40% penalty in a unanimous opinion written by Justice Antonin Scalia released today. The decision,  U.S. v. Woods , reversed a 5 th  Circuit opinion which held that the 40% penalty did not apply in sham partnership cases and declared the issue “well settled.” So the decision came as an unwelcome surprise to tax controversy lawyers and their clients—high income taxpayers who were sold on so-called Son of Boss tax shelters by the likes of KPMG,  Deutsche Bank   Deutsche Bank  and  Ernst   Young   Ernst   Young .  
Woods’ case got to the Supreme Court to resolve a split–there were two circuits that sided with the taxpayers in these cases and other circuits sided with the IRS. “We have resolution now of an uncertainty in interpreting these complicated tax partnership provisions and their interplay with the penalty provisions,” says Charles Ruchelman, a tax controversy lawyer with Caplin   Drysdale in  Washington , D.C. who was not involved in the case before the Supreme Court. “There’s a lot of money involved, and there are a lot of cases waiting out there across the country,” he added. Many cases have settled, but for those that are still open, the IRS can now apply the 40% penalty.  
The issue — the maximum income tax penalty (absent fraud) that can be imposed on a tax shelter investor – is a bit esoteric but the dollars add up.  
In this case, Gary Woods and his employer, Billy Joe McCombs, participated in 1999 in an offsetting-option tax shelter designed to generate large paper losses that they could use to reduce their taxable income. The particular tax shelter, called COBRA for “Current  Options  Bring Reward Alternatives,” was developed by the now-defunct law firm Jenkens   Gilchrist and marketed by the accounting firm Ernst   Young (using currency option spreads courtesy of Deutsche Bank).  
As Scalia put it: The “alchemy at the heart” of the shelter lay in how Woods and McCombs calculated the tax basis of their interests in two partnerships. At the end of the day, the partnerships’ $3.2 million investment generated tax losses that could have (if treated as valid) shielded more than $45 million of income from taxation. The IRS treated the partnerships as shams and disallowed the COBRA-generated losses.  
The question before the Court was whether a valuation misstatement penalty of 40% applies in this type of case. Woods argued that the penalty applies only to factual misrepresentations about an assets’ worth or cost, not to misrepresentations that rest on legal errors (like the use of a sham partnership). The Supreme Court instead ruled that the 40% penalty encompasses legal as well as factual misstatements of adjusted basis. The partnerships did not exist for tax purposes, so no partner could legitimately claim a basis in his partnership interest greater than zero—triggering the 40% penalty.  
Since these are partnership level proceedings, and the tax is determined at the partner level, it’s hard to determine the amount of tax and penalty at issue for the partners, Ruchelman says, but suffice it to say, we’re talking about millions of dollars in just this one case. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How Far Back Can IRS Claim Tax Evasion Or Fraud? Timing Is Everything
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Robert W. Wood 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    BDO Admits Generating $6.5 Billion In Phony Tax Shelter Losses, Pays $50 Million
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Janet Novack 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Judge Shoots Down Another Forbes 400 Member's Tax Shelter
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Janet Novack 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/ashleaebeling/2013/12/03/supreme-court-sides-with-irs-in-tax-shelter-penalty-case/