

* Valiant says U.S. clients are less than 1 pct of total 
* Scores more banks expected to come forward to regulator ZURICH  Dec 9 (Reuters) - Valiant Holding AG on
Monday became the first Swiss bank to say it would work with
U.S. officials in a crackdown on wealthy Americans evading taxes
through hidden offshore accounts. The Swiss regional bank said it would participate in the
scheme brokered by the Swiss government and Washington because
it could not say definitively that all its U.S. clients paid
their taxes. "The costs of the U.S. program will not jeopardize the
financial stability of Valiant in any way. This decision does
not endanger the distribution of an unchanged dividend," Valiant
said in a statement on Monday. Valiant is the first of what is expected to be a host of
banks to tell Swiss financial regulator FINMA this week that
they will bow to U.S. pressure to come clean on any past
transgressions and face up to fines. Valiant said an internal review showed it had never actively
sought U.S. clients or visited Americans to drum up business.
The bank said less than 0.1 percent of its clients were
American. The fines can be as much as 50 percent of assets managed on
behalf of American clients depending on how egregiously the
banks acted in their dealings with those customers, and would
trigger a disclosure to investors because they are material to
share prices. Others being scrutinized are listed private banks such as
EFG International, Vontobel, St. Galler
Kantonalbank, which owns private bank Hyposwiss, Linth
Bank and Banque Cantonale Vaudoise. These
banks are likely to offer the first indication of how many firms
the U.S. authorities can bring to cooperate because, as publicly
listed stocks, they are subject to disclosure rules. If the Swiss banks choose to shun the U.S. offer, individual
firms and their senior staff risk criminal prosecution. A
failure to cooperate could also hold up a settlement for around
a dozen of Switzerland's largest banks, including Credit Suisse
, Julius Baer, Pictet, and local
government-backed Zuercher Kantonalbank (ZKB), which are under
formal investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice. In 2009, UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, was
fined $780 million and agreed to hand over the names of U.S.
clients with secret Swiss bank accounts to avoid facing criminal
charges. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/WpJf5Cb4e5c/story01.htm