


By Susan Kelly Dec 9 (Reuters) - U.S. Food and Drug Administration staff
reviewing data on    Boston Scientific Corp's novel
anti-stroke device highlighted the implant's failure to meet a
key goal for effectiveness in a recent study but said on Monday
that other data must be weighed in deciding whether it should be
approved. The FDA released documents about the device, called
Watchman, ahead of a meeting on Wednesday of outside medical
experts who will consider its risks and benefits and then
recommend whether the FDA should approve the product for use in
patients. The device, implanted on the heart to prevent stroke in
patients with a dangerous cardiac rhythm known as atrial
fibrillation, was developed as an alternative to clot-preventing
blood thinners. If approved, it could spare heart patients a
lifetime of taking anticoagulant drugs, such as warfarin, that
carry a high risk of bleeding. An FDA advisory panel in 2009 recommended approval of the
first-of-its-kind device, but the agency ultimately decided
another study was needed to evaluate its safety and
effectiveness. The second clinical trial, however, failed to meet a key
goal showing the device to be as effective as warfarin in
preventing stroke. FDA staff on Monday said the expert panel will need to
consider follow-up results from the first trial, data from a
patient registry and the new study results in making its
recommendations. "It is critical that advisory panel members review the
totality of the data in making these determinations as each
component of the data set has strengths and limitations," the
FDA reviewers said. Wells Fargo analyst Larry Biegelsen said he believes the FDA
will approve the device, but cautioned that Wednesday's meeting
could be contentious. Key issues for the panel will be the
missed goal in the newer study, as well as implications of new
oral anti-coagulants on the market, he said. "The FDA stresses a number of times in the briefing
documents that the panel members should consider the totality of
the data, which we think is a positive sign," Biegelsen said in
a research report. Boston Scientific acquired the Watchman device when it
bought Atritech in March 2011. It has been on the market in
Europe since 2005. People with atrial fibrillation, the most common type of
arrhythmia, are five times more likely to suffer a stroke than
those without the condition. It affects nearly 3 million people
in the United States and that number is expected to increase. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/zBbJPDbfcFE/story01.htm