

* Producer prices fall for third straight month in November 
* Investors cautious before Fed meeting next week * T-Mobile US surges late on report of possible bid from
Sprint * Dow up 0.1 pct, S  500 off 0.01 pct, Nasdaq up 0.1 pct By Rodrigo Campos NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks ended Friday's
session little changed after a three-day drop, but logged their
worst week in nearly four months on concern that the Federal
Reserve could signal the start of a reduction in its stimulus
program at its policy-setting meeting next week. Investors in U.S.-based funds pulled $6.51 billion out of
stock mutual funds in the week ended Wednesday, representing the
biggest weekly outflow this year, data from Thomson Reuters'
Lipper service showed on Thursday. In a bullish signal, the S  500 closed on Friday right
above 1,775 - considered a technical support level. At less than
2 percent below its record closing high, the S  500's pullback
for the week shows no signs of investor panic, traders said. Investors have been trying to gauge the timing of an
expected winding down of the U.S. central bank's bond-buying
stimulus, with many market participants expecting the Fed to
announce a tapering in March. Stronger economic data of late, however, has led some to
shorten that timeline to as soon as the end of next week's
two-day meeting. "Focus is still on what the Fed says next Wednesday. There's
a set of people that think (the Fed) is going to announce a
tapering, but I think what we will have is more clarity," said
Ken Polcari, director of the NYSE floor division at O'Neil
Securities in New York. Economic data on Friday showed producer prices declined in
November for a third straight month, indicating a lack of
inflation pressure that could give the Federal Reserve some
wiggle room as it weighs the future of its stimulus. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 15.93 points or
0.1 percent, to end at 15,755.36. The S  500 dipped a
mere 0.18 of a point or 0.01 percent, to finish at 1,775.32. The
Nasdaq Composite added 2.572 points or 0.06 percent, to
close at 4,000.975. For the week, the Dow and the S  500 each lost 1.65 percent
and the Nasdaq fell 1.52 percent. It was the largest weekly
percentage drop for the indexes since August. T-Mobile US shares jumped late in regular trading
after a Wall Street Journal report that Sprint is mulling
a bid for its rival. T-Mobile US shares shot up 8.7 percent to
close at $27.64 while Sprint gained 3.4 percent to end at $8.43.
After the bell, Sprint further extended its gain by 3.1 percent. Shares of International Paper rose 3.6 percent to
close at $47.83 and led the gainers in the S  500's materials
sector. Jefferies said in a research note that there are signs
of demand pickup in containerboard, and the recent pullback in
IP and others has created a buying opportunity. In the energy sector, shares of Anadarko Petroleum Corp
 fell 6.4 percent to $78.31 a day after a U.S. judge
ruled that Anadarko and its Kerr-McGee unit acted with "intent
to hinder" when they spun off Tronox, a paint materials
company that later went bankrupt. The judge ruled that Anadarko
and Kerr-McGee should pay billions of dollars in environmental
cleanup costs. Tronox shares gained 7.5 percent to
$22.76. Adobe Systems Inc climbed 12.8 percent to $60.89 a
day after the maker of Photoshop and Acrobat software reported a
surge in the number of subscribers to its Creative Cloud suite
from the previous quarter. Twitter Inc shares rose 6.6 percent to a record
closing high of $59 a day after the company was forced to nix a
change to its "block" feature after users protested that the new
policy empowered perpetrators of online abuse. Advancers beat decliners on the NYSE by a ratio of 4 to 3.
On the Nasdaq, about seven stocks rose for every five that fell. About 5.5 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges,
below the 6.1 billion average so far this month, according to
data from BATS Global Markets. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/SXHploo4JsQ/story01.htm