

BOSTON  Dec 4 (Reuters) - Booming Asian internet stocks have
fueled Passport Capital's double-digit gains this year at a time
when many hedge funds have delivered only modest returns. 
The San Francisco-based based hedge fund, which invests $3.1
billion for clients, has returned 18.3 percent in 2013, after
gaining 2.4 percent last month, an investor with the fund said
on Wednesday. The average hedge fund has gained only about 6 percent this
year, according to industry data, falling far behind the 25
percent rise posted by the Standard  &  Poor's 500 index. Hedge funds' generally lackluster returns coupled with their
high fees have raised questions among their wealthy investors
about how effective these investment pools have been. But Passport, best remembered for its 219 percent gain in
2007 just before the financial crisis, has set its sights
abroad, stocking its flagship Global Strategy fund with picks
from China and Saudi Arabia. Chinese real estate internet portal Soufun Holdings
, one of Passport's biggest holdings, has surged 196
percent this year, having gotten a boost early this week when it
announced plans to launch a financial services platform later
this month. Anti-virus software company Qihoo 360 Technology Co
, another one of Passport's big holdings, climbed 190
pct this year. And Saudi Arabian telecommunications company
Etihad Etisalat also added gains. Similarly, short positions in gold, copper and other mining
stocks have helped the fund this year, the investor said. A spokeswoman for the fund declined to comment. John Burbank, who founded Passport more than a dozen years
ago and is often seen at industry conferences in his trademark
khaki pants and a fleece vest, has been hedging against a drop
in gold prices all year. Up until this year gold had been a sure-fire bet for many
managers as an inflation hedge and safe haven investment, but
many managers have now suffered big losses as prices have
tumbled. The SPDR Gold Trust ETF, for example, has lost
26 percent this year. Passport has shorted the Vanguard Emerging Market ETF
 and the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF,
according to the investor. Passport is not the only San Francisco-based fund that
extended its gains in November. Mick McGuire's $2.5 billion
Marcato Capital Management, which counts Blackstone Group among
its investors and lists Lear Corp as its biggest
investment, told clients that its international fund gained 2.4
percent in November, leaving it up 23.6 percent for the year. Other fund managers, including Bill Ackman, Dan Loeb and
David Einhorn have also released their numbers which also showed
double digit gains and Loeb delivering the best
returns. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/neAa4SpOQ-w/story01.htm