

* Investors unsure of Fed's timing for tapering 
* ADP employment report tops expectations * Both OmniVision and Express shares slide after outlook * Dow off 0.2 pct, S  500 down 0.1 pct, Nasdaq up 0.02 pct By  Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK, Dec 4 (Reuters) - The Dow and the S  500 finished
lower for the fourth consecutive session on Wednesday after
investors found few reasons to make big moves, with uncertainty
remaining over when the Federal Reserve will start to slow its
stimulus. Stocks fell for much of the session, but edged closer to
break-even levels in the last hour of trading. Still, the losses
were broad, with eight of the 10 S  500 sector indexes ending
lower for the day on concerns that the market's recent rally to
record levels was not justified. About 60 percent of the shares traded on the New York Stock
Exchange closed lower for the day, while 56 percent of
Nasdaq-listed stocks closed down. Many market participants expect the Fed to announce a cut in
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases in March, but recent
economic data increased expectations that the move may come
sooner. The Fed has said it would slow its stimulus program when
certain economic measures meet its targets, including a decline
in the U.S. unemployment rate. The ADP National Employment Report showed private-sector
employers added 215,000 jobs in November, more than expected.
This was the latest in a string of reports suggesting that the
economy's outlook was brightening. "Stronger economics means earlier tapering, which is a
negative for the market. On top of that, we've surged to new
highs with a lot of optimism, and that normally calls for a
pullback, if only briefly," said Bruce McCain, chief investment
strategist at Key Private Bank in Cleveland, Ohio. "If the decline is mostly about sentiment, we should work
through it quickly and be back to seeing better action," he
added. "But the pullback could be more pronounced, the more
people focus on the Fed." The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 24.85
points, or 0.16 percent, to end at 15,889.77. The Standard  & 
Poor's 500 Index declined 2.34 points, or 0.13 percent,
to finish at 1,792.81. But the Nasdaq Composite Index 
inched up just 0.80 of a point, or 0.02 percent, to close at
4,038.00. In the Fed's Beige Book, a collection of anecdotes from the
central bank's business contacts across the nation, the Fed said
employers had stepped up hiring in some parts of the country in
October and early November, and the economy had expanded at a
"modest to moderate pace." Other signs of strength in the economy were figures showing
that the U.S. trade deficit narrowed in October and new home
sales recorded their biggest increase in nearly 33-1/2 years in
October. The home sales report suggested that the housing
market's recovery remains intact despite higher mortgage rates.
 Shares of KB Home rose 1.1 percent to
$17.26. But the economic picture was muddied after the Institute for
Supply Management said its services index fell to 53.9 last
month from 55.4 in October. A forecast called for a November
reading of 55.0. A figure above 50 signifies expansion. U.S. crude oil futures prices advanced 1.2 percent,
up for a fourth straight day as government data showed an
unexpected drop in U.S. stockpiles. Crude is up 5.3 percent over
the past four sessions. Shares of Marathon Oil rose 1.4 percent to $36.74.
The stock of Hess Corp added 1.3 percent to $82.21. Among decliners, shares of clothing retailer Express Inc
 tumbled 23 percent to $19 after the company forecast
quarterly earnings below analysts' estimates because of
weaker-than-expected Thanksgiving sales. OmniVision Technologies Inc slid 2.9 percent to
$15.52 after the chipmaker forecast current-quarter revenue well
below analysts' estimates. After the market closed, Aeropostale Inc fell 3.6
percent to $9.01 following the release of its third-quarter
results. The stock ended regular trading at $9.36, down 3.9
percent. Oculus Innovative Sciences Inc shares surged 103.4
percent to $4.74 after the company got the go-ahead from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for its anti-scar gel. About 6.54 billion shares traded on all U.S. platforms,
according to BATS exchange data. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/jWmVcHPZ0xU/story01.htm