


By  Emily Stephenson  and Sarah N. Lynch WASHINGTON  Dec 4 (Reuters) - Three Wall Street trade groups
sued the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Wednesday
to rescind tough overseas trading guidelines they fear could
hurt markets and cut profits. The groups accused the CFTC in their lawsuit of
circumventing a more rigorous rulemaking process by issuing its
cross-border regulations as "guidance." Had the CFTC conducted a formal rulemaking, federal law
would have required the agency to carry out a cost-benefit
analysis to study the economic impacts of the rule and its costs
to the industry, they said. The groups that filed the suit in U.S. District Court for
the District of Columbia are the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association (SIFMA), the International Swaps
and Derivatives Association (ISDA) and the Institute of
International Bankers (IIB). "The cross-border rule further creates significant
financial, legal and administrative burdens on market
participants that could harm liquidity and the ability of
end-users to manage their risks," the groups said in a
statement. They also said they filed the lawsuit to stop the CFTC from
what they described as an "unceasing effort" to regulate the
global swaps market through unpredictable advisory documents
instead of formal rules. "This action, which has been taken so far outside the bounds
of normal regulatory course ... needs to be addressed through
the court system," SIFMA Chief Executive Judd Gregg told
Reuters. A spokesman for the CFTC did not have an immediate comment. The CFTC, the nation's top swaps regulator, was required by
the 2010 Dodd-Frank law to write dozens of rules bringing the
$630 trillion market under federal oversight for the first time.
Regulators were also instructed to determine how their rules
should apply to U.S. companies with operations overseas. The issue sparked a trans-Atlantic conflict with banks and
European regulators who did not want companies to have to comply
with both U.S. and foreign rules. Complicating matters, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, which oversees a small portion of the swaps market,
has taken a different approach. It is pursuing a formal rule,
not guidance, that will govern how its regulations apply across
the globe. The CFTC gave final approval in July to its guidance that
would let U.S. banks follow only foreign rules where they could
show the regulations were roughly comparable. The guidance was subjected to public comment and voted on by
the commission, with Republican Commissioner Scott O'Malia
dissenting. But the groups challenging the guidance were alarmed by 
follow-up "advisories" issued by CFTC staff outside the purview
of the agency's commissioners or the public comment process. Two of those advisories, issued on Nov. 14 and 15, greatly
expanded the scope of the CFTC's rules to include swaps that
were negotiated in the United States, even if the trades were
booked offshore and outside of the U.S. marketplace. "By dictating private parties' obligations through sudden
and unpredictable regulatory fiat, the commission and its staff
are harming the business relationships of U.S. companies, whose
business partners are increasingly wary of being drawn into a
regulatory environment in which the rules of the road may be
changed overnight," the groups argued in the lawsuit. The lead attorney representing the groups is Eugene Scalia,
a partner at Gibson Dunn  &  Crutcher who has made a name for
himself in Washington for often prevailing in legal challenges
to Wall Street regulations. Wednesday's lawsuit comes as CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler
nears the end of his term, which expires on Jan. 3. Gensler has emerged as an especially aggressive financial
regulator in his push to finalize tough interpretations of new
regulations required by Dodd-Frank. Should the legal challenge prevail, it could significantly
impact his legacy. The CFTC has faced multiple legal challenges to its rules
during Gensler's tenure, and the agency has had mixed success in
defending against them. The agency lost one case filed by SIFMA and ISDA against a
set of rules to rein in how banks and other large traders place
bets in the commodity markets. But it has successfully beaten back other challenges,
including one filed against the agency by Bloomberg LP over
derivatives rules and another lawsuit filed by industry groups
that targeted fund registration requirements. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/tyUQahTeslY/story01.htm