         

         


         
             Business 
         
         | 
     
        12/14/2013 @ 2:09PM
             | 9 views
     
		 The 20 Most Expensive Seasonal Rentals For Christmas And New Year's 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  The 20 Most Expensive Holiday Rentals For Christmas And New Year's 
 
There are many reasons spending the holidays in Costa Rica could be a fabulous way to go. For starters, the weather: right now it’s 74 degrees Farenheit in Turrialba, Costa Rica. That balmy area is home to Hacienda Santa Ines, a 10-room, 12-bathroom villa situated on 300 acres in Costa Rica’s Tres Rios mountain range. Going price for the holiday week: $192,000.  
Hacienda Santa Ines , up for rent on  HomeAway   HomeAway .com, is the priciest property available on the four vacation rental sites we surveyed (HomeAway.com, FlipKey.com, Airbnb, and VacationHomeRentals.com) in our search for this year’s most expensive holiday rentals. The high price is, in part, due to the fact that the hacienda hits that warm weather sweet spot that people seem to crave this time of year. “For the Christmas travel week last year, we saw that 72% of our travelers headed to warm-weather destinations and only 28% traveled to cold weather climates,” says Eric Horndahl, vice president of marketing at FlipKey.com, a vacation rental website. “Florida year-round is extremely popular for us. Other spots that are at the top of the list include the Caribbean islands, Hawaii and European destinations such as Rome, Paris and Barcelona.”  
Tuscany, in particular, boasts a lot of luxury offerings for the holidays. The second most expensive rental we found was  Borgo San Pietro , a 17-bedroom, 17-bath villa in Tuscany that rents out at $146,944 per week. Eight hundred years ago, the 13th-century residence was a resting place for pilgrims en route to Rome. The property is still available for Christmas week on FlipKey.com. Number three on the most expensive list is Villa Rockstar, on the island of St. Barthelemy, goes for the same $145,000 per week rate, and comes with an amenity likely to make you feel a rockstar: a personal butler.  
“The most popular days to rent during the holidays are December 22nd to January 2nd,” says Alexis Eliopoulos of VactionHomeRentals.com. But many of the luxe properties seem to still be available. Among them: Chalet Edelweiss, a 7-floor, 8-bedroom ski chalet situated in the Rhone-Alpes region of France, a two-minute walk from Courchevel 1850, the famous ski resort. The chalet’s dining table seats 24. At $145,000 per week (tied for No. 3 on our most expensive list), it’s the priciest of the cold weather destinations available for rent this holiday.  
Of course the most expensive rentals available on sites like HomeAway.com and FlipKey.com are far pricier than rentals on sites including Airbnb and VacationHomeRentals.com. The priciest offering on the latter website was a five-bedroom home in Bangalow, Australia that boasts a 10-meter-high entrance hall featuring beams from an 1918 bridge built and 100-year-old floorboards from an old Adelaide Church. At $18,760 per week, that property is a relative bargain. The most expensive properties on Airbnb seem to run just about $4,200 per week.  
Jill Eber, one half of the top Miami sales agent duo known as “The Jills,” warns that people seeking seasonal rentals online should take caution. “We’ve gotten calls from people when there are some online companies that will advertise a rental for a week or two–properties which are not actually for rent–for a ridiculously low sum,” she says. Those listings tend to be scams, she says.  
FlipKey.com, however, does take steps to prevent fraud. “Before a property listing goes live on FlipKey, the owner/manager goes through a detailed background check and property authentication process to ensure the listing is true to the owner/manager’s claims.” 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Smart Tax Moves Homeowners Should Make Before 2013 Ends
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Erin Carlyle 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Most Outrageously Expensive Home Purchases Of 2013
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Erin Carlyle 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/erincarlyle/2013/12/14/the-20-most-expensive-seasonal-rentals-for-christmas-and-new-years-2/