         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/14/2013 @ 1:27PM
             | 42 views
     
		 A Shadow Elite; Bankers, Regulators, Economists, Politicians, Borrowers Are Seduced by Easy Money Policy 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
In the spring of 2008 the IMF predicted that the global economy would grow by 3.8% in 2009. Instead, due to the global financial crisis and the Great Recession the economy declined by 3.9%. This preposterous forecast by the central bankers and establishment economists who dominate enclaves like the IMF and the Bank of International Settlements (BIS) in Basle Switzerland remind international economist William White(recommended to me by the soon-to-be Vice Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Stanley Fischer) of the comic strip Pogo; whose mantra was ” We have seen the enemy and he is us!”  
The enemy, according to White is A Tale of Seduction amongst the creators of 2008, “ borrowers, lenders, regulators, central banks, academics and politicians, (who) were each seduced into believing different things that were not true… the relationship between these various parties also contributed to them having ” no eye to see and no ear to hear,” White told a distinguished audience on October 24 in London in his paper. ” What Has Gone Wrong With the Global Economy? Why Were Warnings Ignored? What Have We Learned from the experience?”  
I mean to tell you what lessons White has learned, and even though he is not a regular on CNN or writes a column for the FT, Stanley Fischer(you’ll be hearing a great deal more about Fischer, once he becomes Vice Chairman of the Fed)  assured me that White saw 2008 coming as early as 2003 in a paper White, then at the BIS, gave at the Jackson Hole, Wyoming conclave of central bankers. He had the vision and the intelligence to see the disaster coming  
So, what disaster did White warn me and this you about that could be coming down the road? ” Expansionary monetary policy… has its shortcoming… such policies have undesirable unintended consequences  White explained in London. By undesirable, he means   a much larger  too big to fail  problem than we had before. He means the creation of “ zombie companies and zombie banks… They have contributed to more risk taking and unjustified increases in asset prices.” To sum up; the crisis is not over.  
White fears another catastrophe from the knee-jerk, ever more aggressive, overly long lasting easy money policies espoused by Alan Greenspan and Ben Bernanke, to be inherited by Janet Yellen and Fischer, once they are in place.  
Here’s the gist of his warning. In the financial market crises of the past many decades, 1987, 2000, 2008, the solution has always been the same, increase money supply and maintain rock-bottom low interest rates, former BIS economist and Canadian central banker, William White, told me today from Basle where he is plainly worried about the outcome of a policy that just keeps printing more money aggressively with increasingly less positive results on economic growth than before.  
White strongly questions his friend Ben Bernanke’s devotion to Quantitative Easing. What if the roots of fragility and accidents are just waiting to happen from being wrong about repeating over and over again the same excessive easy money policy? What if the Greenspan Put and the the easy money that resolved crises in 1987, 1991, 1994, 2000, and 2008 are only a prologue for an even worse crisis that QE won’t solve?  
White’s most intense fearsome nightmare is that the boom and rising bubble of home prices in Canada, Poland, Israel, Germany Australia and New Zealand will eventually burst just as they did in the U.S. in 2007-2008, triggering another worldwide recession that the elite finance opinion makers will meet with an even more aggressive easing of money and lowering of the cost of money.  
” Why do people believe what they believe?”, White asks me on our hour-long transatlantic phone call.” People with influence over the system want us to believe that the system they prefer– (more and cheaper money) is the best of all solutions for every crisis.”  
What’s gone wrong is that ultra easy money policy is seen as a risk-free solution, even though the forecasting records based on easy money create forecasting records that are just too damned optimistic. ” What if Bernanke’s faith in QE is the root of fragility and accidents waiting to happen? ” White asks me. He has come to understand that there has grown an unstated alliance between Economists and Powerful Interests, who have seduced each other into a an unannounced alliance over a policy that benefits them in the short run, but may create more severe crises and disasters down the road.  
In his October 24 London talk, White put it another way. ” The Great Moderation, as Hyman Minsky would have predicted, generated the belief that the world had become a permanently less risky place.” The result of this mutual seduction was the manipulation of LIBOR, the reckless selling of toxic assets to unsuspecting buyers, and the hiding of highly leveraged risky activities in the off-the balance sheet ” shadow banking system.  
As Pogo said: ” We have the seen the enemy, and it is us.” 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/robertlenzner/2013/12/14/a-shadow-elite-of-bankers-regulators-economists-politicians-and-borrowers-are-seduced-by-easy-money-policy/