         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/14/2013 @ 1:10PM
             | 137 views
     
		 The LEGO - Apple - Nordstrom Expert Path To Customer Loyalty: Consulting How They Build Customer Service Engagement 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Customer loyalty has a dubious relationship to customer loyalty programs, customer loyalty cards, customer loyalty rewards. Dubious, at best.  
Programs, cards, and rewards deserve consideration in your marketing mix, but it’s a novel, even cynical use of the English language for a consultant to sell a merchant on the idea that someone handing you a card to scan at the register is the same thing as having created a loyal customer.  

  
   LEGO retail store greeter, Copenhagen   Micah Solomon micah@micahsolomon.com 
 
Take 23 seconds to think about it. Apple customers are famously loyal. Nordstrom customers are famously loyal. Southwest Airlines customers are famously loyal.  
Yet I have never — never! — heard a human being say “I’m loyal to Nordstrom because of their rewards program.”  
(Instead, customers tell me they’re loyal to Nordstrom because “I like my personal shopper”/”They delivered my shoes to me at home when I was on crutches”/”They take back my returns, no questions asked”/”I feel they have my back when something goes wrong.”)  
And I’ve never heard: “I’m loyal to Apple because of their rewards program.”  
(In my own case, after buying dozens of Apple products, I still don’t have any kind of Apple loyalty card–they don’t exist. But the genius at the store at Suburban Square had a new screen in stock – in stock! – for my beloved MB Pro Retina laptop and was able to resolve the issue within hours. )  
Nor have I heard:  
“I’m loyal to Southwest Airlines because of Rapid Rewards.”  
(My personal loyalty to Southwest is driven by how the airline saved my butt recently when I missed my connection–you can  read the story here  or in more detail in my latest book,  High-Tech, High-Touch Customer Service .)  
So what  does  create a loyal customer?  Well, I think you can see a theme in my examples above: Sometimes, it takes having something go wrong–and handling it correctly: rising to the occasion in a way that cements your customer’s attachment to your brand.  
What does “handled correctly” mean?  It means that your customer service problem-resolution process successfully serves  the emotional  needs  of your customers.  
This means, in part, teaching your staff to apologize and empathize immediately with the customer’s version of the story, sincerely and without hesitation or equivocation, saving the idea of ‘‘right and wrong’’ for another time.  
This can feel uncomfortable, but it’s worth it:  A response like this can make a customer more loyal than if things hadn’t gone wrong in the first place, through its well-thought-out, customer-involving approach.  
I know this sounds a tad like pollyannish hooey, so let me give you an example, featuring one of the truly great brands of our time: the Danish company, LEGO.  Then I’ll explain the methodology behind the approach.  
LEGO knows that every once in a while some of its plastic bricks will fail to make it into one of its kits, or that one of LEGO’s youthful customers will lose a few specific bricks and become frustrated partway through a challenging project. Where the problem originates doesn’t matter; either way, LEGO realizes that it’s a problem for the company. I became aware of this when my ten-year-old was three quarters of the way through a challenging LEGO kit modeled on Fallingwater, Frank Lloyd Wright’s architectural masterpiece.  
(LEGO kits are of an order of magnitude more intricate than what was available when I was a kid,when yellow, blue, and red were some of the primary — get it? — options.)  
‘‘Hey Dad, there are two bricks missing.’’ Forgetting that my daughter’s twice  as smart as me, I cluelessly asked, ‘‘Are you sure?’’ ‘‘Yes, Dad, I’m sure,’’ she responded impatiently, and, of course, she proved to be right.  
We looked on the web together and discovered that LEGO had a convenient way to order missing pieces, gratis. Super. But what was really super was the letter that came with the replacement bricks. Some highlights from their letter:  
Thanks for getting in touch with us. I’m sorry there were item(s) missing from your new LEGO set. We try really hard to make sure all LEGO toys are perfect, but sometimes a faulty one sneaks through. Actually—controlling the quality of the toys that leave our factory is a big job (about seven LEGO sets are sold every second!) . . . and we have a whole department of experts (and machines) who test every LEGO set before it leaves us—they even weigh every box to make sure there’s nothing missing. We’d like to get even better at catching any faulty LEGO sets, though, so  I’m passing your comments on to the team in charge of  testing . It’ll help them make sure this doesn’t happen again.  [Emphasis mine.]  
A response like this can make things better–bring the customer closer to, more engaged with, and ultimately more loyal to your brand than if things hadn’t gone wrong in the first place, through its well-thought-out, customer-involving approach.  
How can that be?  Because it brings a customer closer to the company: now the customer has gone through this event with your company, has come out the other side, and feels that they’re both on the same team.  
Note, especially, how the LEGO letter makes a point of including my daughter in the process of improving things at LEGO.  
****  
Expect things to go wrong. Plan for this eventuality, keeping the  emotional needs of your customer central. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    7 Ways To Improve Patient Satisfaction, Experience, And Customer Service, From Consulting In Hospitals And Healthcare
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Micah Solomon 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Science Of The Customer Experience: A Consultant, A Blindfold, And Your Customer's Service Memories
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Micah Solomon 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Hospitality: Consulting A Nine Year Old Kid On What A Hotel's Five Stars Really Mean
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Micah Solomon 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/micahsolomon/2013/12/14/legos-expert-path-to-customer-loyalty-consulting-their-brick-by-brick-approach/