	 New Blackberry boss John Chen insists firm is  alive 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Mr Chen insisted reports of the smartphone maker s death were  greatly exaggerated 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Blackberry abandons sell-off plan 

		 


											




	


	





	 Blackberry seeks to calm customers 

		 


								 
	 
                        Blackberry s new boss John Chen insisted on Monday the troubled smartphone maker is still  alive . 
         In  a letter to customers , he said that the company s  for sale  sign has been taken down and  we are here to stay. 
         He also asked customers to remain patient as he tries to reposition the firm as more than a phone maker. 
         BlackBerry, which was briefly for sale over the summer, recently announced massive layoffs amid slumping sales. 
   Demise 'greatly exaggerated' 
	       On 4 November, the firm said it would accept a $1bn  strategic investment  from institutional investors. 
         This meant abandoning a planned acquisition by Fairfax Financial, which had tried to buy BlackBerry for $4.7bn (£3bn) before failing to raise enough funds.  
         Fairfax, which owns 10% of BlackBerry, said it contributed $250m to the financing round. 
         Shares in the smartphone maker plunged 16% on that news, and they re down more than 45% for the year. 
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 BlackBerry Ltd  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 02 Dec 2013, 13:57 ET  
		
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						6.36
						 
						 				
							 + 
							 +0.03 					
						 
						 		
							 + 
							 +0.47 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       As part of the financing deal, it was announced that Thorsten Heins would be replaced by Mr Chen as chief executive. 
         Since his appointment as interim boss, Mr Chen has issued several  open letters  to BlackBerry s customers, insisting the firm was still in business. 
         He also announced the departure of several of the firms top executives, and eliminated the positions of chief operating officer and chief marketing officer. 
         In his letter, Mr Chen said the firm was going back to its roots creating business solutions and that it was focusing on four areas: handsets, enterprise mobility management solutions, cross-platform messaging, and embedded systems.  
         He also affirmed BlackBerry s commitment to security, a traditional selling point of the devices, which had been used by governments across the world. 
         I will keep the lines of communication open as we navigate through this transition,  said Mr Chen. 
         In short, reports of our death are greatly exaggerated,  he insisted. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25191658#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa