	 Autumn Statement: Osborne to make fresh spending cuts 

     
         
 
    
    
					            	            	    		 			 
												 
											 By James Landale 
				 Deputy political editor 
			 
		
         
   

   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Autumn Statement 2013 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What we know already 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Autumn Statement 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Resetting the political agenda 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 A better day for the chancellor 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       George Osborne will announce a fresh round of spending cuts for Whitehall departments when he gives his Autumn Statement on Thursday. 
         The chancellor has written to cabinet colleagues to say budgets will face total extra reductions of £1bn a year for the next three financial years.  
         The first £1bn will come mainly from unspent reserves, he will say. 
         Labour urged ministers to ensure the economic recovery did more to help  most working people . 
         In his statement, Mr Osborne is expected to say health, schools, foreign aid, local government, revenue and customs and the security services will be protected. 
         Treasury officials said that, although financial discipline and efficiency savings would play their part, departments would have to find cuts of 1.1% in 2014/15 and 2015/16. 
         The Ministry of Defence will have some flexibility to protect any underspent budgets. So the biggest losers in Whitehall will be those such as the Department for Work and Pensions, the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice.  
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 
	 
   

   

	 
	       The BBC will have full coverage of the Autumn Statement. 
   
      News Channel extensive coverage 08.30 - 21.30 GMT 
      BBC2 special programme 11.00 - 14.00 GMT 
      Radio 5 Shelagh Fogarty live from Westminster from 11.15 - 14.00 GMT  
      Live text and video coverage on the BBC News website 
   
	 
		 
			 BBC Autumn statement in depth 
		 
	        Officials refused to say what the savings would be used for, but the government does have to find money to pay for recent commitments such as marriage tax breaks, more free school meals and potentially any fuel duty freeze the chancellor may announce.  
         Officials said the tough decisions showed that this would be a responsible recovery and there would be no giveaways while the government completed its long term plan to fix the economy.  
         Some of the details of Mr Osborne s statement have already been announced, including: 
   
      An extra £150m to update and build kitchens and dining rooms in English primary schools 
      A move towards subsidising offshore wind farms instead of onshore wind farms 
      Plans for £375bn of investment in energy, transport, communications, and water projects 
      Selling off the government s 40% stake in the Eurostar rail service 
      A further £50m to redevelop Gatwick Airport s railway station 
      Financial support for the development of a new nuclear power station at Wylfa, north Wales 
      A confirmation that a UK guarantee has now been agreed for the £1bn Northern Line extension to Battersea in London 
      Improvements to the A50 around Uttoxeter, in Staffordshire, and improvements to the A14 around the port of Felixstowe in Suffolk 
          The BBC has also learned that the chancellor will cap business rate increases in England and Wales to 2% next year, rather than the rate of inflation, in an effort to boost firms and High Streets. 
         For Labour, shadow chancellor Ed Balls said:  Growth being back is good but this is no recovery at all for most working people. We need action now - to deal with the cost-of-living crisis, to freeze energy bills, to get young people back to work, to help parents with childcare, to boost investment in our economy and manufacturing and housing for the long term. 
         These are the things to do to help working families to build an economy which works for all. I really hope the chancellor will deliver on that agend, but I m not holding my breath. 
         In the House of Commons, Deputy Speaker Dawn Primarolo said Mr Osborne would be  mortified  that details of his statement had been reported ahead of Thursday. 
         This followed Conservative MP Peter Bone saying:  This is not the first leak… and the chancellor must be mortified and I wonder if he is coming to announce a leak inquiry . 
         Ms Primarolo said she had not seen media reports about the statement but she was  sure he s correct that the chancellor will be mortified . 
         She added:  The Speaker has made it absolutely clear that any government announcement should be made first to this House. 
   
                         What are you views on the spending cuts? Do you have a question about the Autumn Statement? BBC Radio 4 s Moneybox presenter Paul Lewis will answer some of your questions live on the BBC News Channel on Thursday afternoon. Send us your questions using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-25223687#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa