	 Tesco UK sales decline 1.5% in third quarter 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Tesco is 18 months into a turnaround plan 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Lidl plans to double UK stores 

		 


											




	


	





	 Sainsbury s half-year profits up 9% 

		 


											




	


	





	 Tesco blames profit drop on Europe 

		 


								 
	 
                       Tesco has seen a decline in its underlying third quarter sales in the UK, with the supermarket chain blaming a weaker market for groceries. 
         Like-for-like UK sales - which ignore new shop openings - excluding VAT and petrol were down 1.5%. 
         The announcement comes 18 months after boss Philip Clarke launched a £1bn turnaround plan for the company. 
         Tesco s overseas businesses also saw a drop in sales, especially in Thailand, South Korea and Ireland. 
   'Challenging' market 
	       In October, the UK s largest grocery chain reported a 23.5% drop in profits in the first half of its financial year. 
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 Tesco  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 04 Dec 2013, 11:30 ET  
		
			 
				 *Chart shows local time 
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						340.00
						p 
						 				
							 - 
							 -1.60 					
						 
						 		
							 - 
							 -0.47 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       In its latest trading update,  Mr Clarke said:  Continuing pressures on UK household finances have made the grocery market more challenging for everyone since the summer and our third quarter performance reflects this. 
         He added that the decision to slow the opening of new retail space and work on revamping its general merchandise products was holding back sales in the short term. 
         Tesco said it had recently relaunched its  Finest  own brand and renovated 108 of its stores. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 
	 Start Quote 
Tesco seems to be doing worse than the norm 
End Quote 


			 
		 
	 Robert Peston 	 Business editor 
	 

	 
	
	 
		 
			 Read more from Robert 
		 
	        The supermarket chain also said was aiming to improve its online shopping experience, by offering one-hour home delivery slots and setting up so-called  click and collect  drive-through locations. 
         Outside the UK, Tesco saw its sales decline by 5.1% in Asia, which Tesco said was driven by a worsening performance in Thailand and South Korea. 
         In Europe, like-for-like sales were down 4%, and Tesco said sales in Ireland had been hit by  extremely challenging conditions for consumers . 
         Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown, said Tesco s refurbishment programme was beginning to pay off, but the company still faced tough challenges. 
         Competition from both ends of the price range remains intense, the general economic environment has not yet stabilised,  Mr Hunter said.  Certain pockets within its international markets are under constant attack. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25211882#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa