	 China awards first 4G licences to three operators 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     China s biggest mobile phone provider China Mobile does not offer the popular Apple iPhone 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Qualcomm faces China antitrust probe 

		 


											




	


	





	 China Mobile says profits up 1.5% 

		 


								 
	 
                       China has awarded its first licences to mobile phone companies to provide the superfast 4G network to customers. 
         The licences, which are designed to give mobile phone users faster access to services, were granted by the government to China Mobile, China Unicom Hong Kong and China Telecom. 
         The move is expected to boost business for a range of companies, from telecom equipment makers to Apple. 
         China Mobile is expected to offer 4G to subscribers from 18 December.  
         It will be followed by China Unicom and China Telecom, the country s other two major carriers.  
   Apple iPhone 
	       The new licences are for the TD-LTE (Long Term Evolution) networks. This is different to the FDD-LTE standard used to provide 4G data connections in many other parts of the world. 
         That means most smartphone owners will not be able to switch between 4G networks when travelling in and out of the country. 
         It does, however, pave the way for the country s biggest operator to support the iPhone. 
         China Mobile s 3G network was based on a different technology to its rivals and was not compatible with Apple s handsets. However, its 4G network will work with the iPhone 5S and 5C, providing the US firm with the potential for further growth. 
         The country s bestselling three smartphone makers are Samsung, Lenovo and Coolpad, according to a recent report  by the consultants IDC .  
         It said Apple came in sixth place after its market share slipped to just 5% in the April-to-June quarter. But it suggested that figure would  remarkably improve  once the firm could target China Mobile s hundreds of millions of customers. 
         The government also issued China Mobile a licence to operate fixed-line broadband services, adding the company to existing providers China Unicom and China Telecom. 
         China is the world s biggest smartphone-using country, with 1.2 billion mobile phone users.  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25219130#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa