


By  David Gaffen  and Curtis Skinner NEW YORK  Dec 2 (Reuters) - Commuters from New York City's
northern suburbs faced travel delays on Monday morning, the day
after a seven-car train derailment killed four people and
injured 11 critically. A portion of a Metro-North Railroad line between the Bronx
and part of Westchester County could be closed for a week or
more after the accident on Sunday, in which a Manhattan-bound
commuter train ran off the tracks while rounding a sharp curve
in the Bronx. It was the latest in a string of problems to affect the
railroad, including a May derailment in Connecticut that injured
more than 70 people. Service was suspended on the railroad's Hudson line, which
serves 26,000 commuters on an average weekday, between the
village of Tarrytown and Manhattan's Grand Central Terminal,
according to the state's Metropolitan Transportation Authority,
the parent company of Metro-North. The MTA was providing bus service as an alternative, and
urged Westchester County residents to use its Harlem line. A team from the National Transportation Safety Board arrived
in New York City on Sunday and said its investigation would look
at track conditions and the train's mechanical equipment. The
board will also explore any link between Sunday's accident and a
freight train derailment in the same vicinity in July. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said it is unclear how long
it will take the NTSB to review the "black box" data recorder,
recovered from the train. "They haven't given us a timeframe," Cuomo told NBC's
"Today" on Monday. New York officials hope to get rail service
on the commuter line back up by week's end, he added. "We want to get service restored," he said. As for the root cause of the derailment, officials "haven't
gotten anything specific from the NTSB," but it could have been
a track problem, an equipment malfunction or operator error,
Cuomo said. Although the tracks at the site included a "tricky turn,"
Cuomo said, "It's not about the turn. I think it's going to turn
out to be about the speed more than anything and the operator's
operation of the train at that time." NTSB officials said they planned to provide an update on
their investigation later on Monday. The crash happened about 100 yards (meters) north of Metro
North's Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx, in a wooded area
where the Hudson and Harlem rivers meet. One car was toppled
near the water. Monday morning commuters said they had come up with
workarounds to avoid the closed line. Lisa Schulman, a trade show producer who lives in Dobbs
Ferry, had turned to bus service. "I took the bus to the train, and I'll be dependent on the
bus and the cabs," said Schulman, who had been on a Metro-North
train that derailed earlier in the year. Tarrytown resident Santa DeFeis, a 50-year-old legal
secretary, said she'd had to add another 20 minutes to her
commute to drive to another rail station on a different line not
affected by the derailment. "It's a big inconvenience," she said. "But it was a tragedy
what happened. People lost their lives." Metro-North also experienced an outage on its heavily
traveled New Haven line in late September and early October
after a power substation operated by Consolidated Edison Inc
failed. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/8EYA9cf-jE8/story01.htm