


By Sam Forgione NEW YORK  Dec 2 (Reuters) - Jeffrey Gundlach's DoubleLine
Total Return Bond Fund had $811.2 million in outflows
in November on uncertainty over the Federal Reserve's plans for
reducing its bond-buying, data from Morningstar showed on
Monday. The outflows marked the sixth straight month of withdrawals
from the fund, which is the flagship of the Los-Angeles based
DoubleLine Capital LP. Gundlach is the firm's chief executive
and chief investment officer. The outflows also accounted for most of the $823.1 million
in total withdrawals from the firm's U.S. mutual funds in
November, Morningstar data showed. The Total Return Bond Fund
now has roughly $33.3 billion in assets. "It's a popular bond fund at a time period when bond funds
are starting to move out of favor," said Todd Rosenbluth,
director of mutual fund research at S  Capital IQ. Investors have continued to pull cash out of bond funds
since June on fears of a spike higher in interest rates once the
U.S. Federal Reserve begins scaling back the $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases for its economic stimulus program known
as quantitative easing. Investors pulled $21.8 billion from bond mutual funds and
exchange-traded funds in November, marking the biggest outflow
since $36.8 billion in August and the fifth-highest monthly
outflow on record, according to data from TrimTabs Investment
Research. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose
20 basis points to 2.74 percent last month on uncertainty over
whether the Fed will reduce its bond-buying at its upcoming
meeting in December. U.S. Treasury yields shot higher on Nov. 20 after minutes
from a Federal Reserve policy meeting in October suggested the
U.S. central bank could begin to scale back quantitative easing
in the next few months. The outflows came despite the fund's strong performance this
year relative to peers. The fund is up 0.72 percent this year,
beating 91 percent of peers, according to the Chicago-based
Morningstar. DoubleLine had $53 billion in assets as of Sept. 30. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/UxhIcOfaiSI/story01.htm