	 Nigeria move to avoid World Cup bonus row 

     
         
 
								
									 
																									 
							 By Oluwashina Okeleji 
							 BBC Sport 
						 
					 
				
				
							 

			    
                               Nigeria football officials are set to implement a code of conduct which they hope will prevent future rows with the national team over bonus payments.

  
               The move is designed to ensure there is no repeat of the dispute that almost caused the country to miss out on this year s Fifa Confederations Cup.

  
               
Players threatened to strike over a 50% cut in their bonus  

     for June s 2014 World Cup qualifiers in Kenya and Namibia.

  
               Sports minister Bolaji Abdullahi has forwarded a code of conduct, drafted by a committee at his ministry, for immediate implementation by the country s football federation.

  
                That s the right step to take [approach the football body] so that the Nigeria Football Federation can ratify and implement this before the World Cup,  Julius Ogunro, special assistant to the sports minister, told BBC Sport.

  
     
		 Continue reading the main story 	




	 
		 This will hopefully bring an end to ugly incidents that often portray the country in a bad light during major tournament 
	 


	 Julius Ogunro, special assistant to the Nigerian Sports Minister 
        


	 
                It [the code of conduct] was kept away to allow the team focus solely on securing a World Cup ticket.

  
                Now is the right time to get it done and the NFF as a parastatal of the sports ministry are well aware of its importance.

  
                We need to prevent a bonus row like the one which fuelled anger and almost embarrassed the country before the last Confederations Cup in Brazil. 

  
               Back in June, Nigeria s players had initially refused to to go to the Confederations Cup following their 1-1 draw in Namibia in a World Cup qualifier as they were unhappy with the bonus payments offered by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF).

  
               The sports ministry intervened and made extra money available, eventually allowing the squad to travel to Brazil - two days late and only about 36 hours before Nigeria s opening game against Tahiti. 

  
               The five-part document spells out the obligations of the NFF, coaches and players called up to the national team. Non-compliance could lead to fines, suspensions or even expulsions.

  
               Pay rows have often surrounded Nigerian teams, with coaches not paid regularly, while players have resisted any attempts to review their win bonus during important qualifiers or at major tournaments.

  
               There have been several attempts to introduce a code but they have often been met by a stiff resistance from players in the past.

  
                This will hopefully bring an end to ugly incidents that often portray the country in a bad light during major tournament,  Ogunro said.

  
               The poor financial position of the NFF has already forced the country to cut their backroom staff and slashed the salaries and allowances of the various national team coaches, excluding coach Stephen Keshi.

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Nigeria code of conduct delayed
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 19 Sep 2013 
		
			 African Football 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Nigeria FA firm on bonus payments
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 02 Aug 2013 
		
			 African Football 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Nigeria to investigate bonus row
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 08 Jul 2013 
		
			 African Football 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Nigeria settle bonus payment dispute
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 14 Jun 2013 
		
			 African Football 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/25204038