	 BP wins reprieve over Gulf of Mexico oil spill payouts 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The Deepwater Horizon oil platform exploded in April 2010 resulting in the worst oil spill in US history 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 BP wins reprieve over Gulf payouts 

		 


											




	


	





	 BP court move to halt Gulf payouts 

		 


											




	


	





	 BP loses second bid to halt payments 

		 


											 
	 
                       Oil giant BP s attempts to limit claims over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill have been given a boost after a US appeals court ruled in its favour.  
         The court voted for an injunction to suspend any further payments to firms that had not suffered losses as a result of the disaster. 
         BP had argued that the settlement deal it agreed last year was being misinterpreted, allowing firms that  had not suffered harm to claim losses. 
         The court voted 2-1 for the injunction. 
         In its ruling it said that  the district court erred  by not properly taking into account the question of whether losses were caused by the spill. 
         The ruling means that payments to any business that cannot directly trace its losses back to the spill, will now be suspended temporarily.  
   BP victory 
	       A BP spokesman said the decision supported its views that the court-appointed administrator was misinterpreting the language of the oil-spill settlement. 
         If properly implemented by the district court, the Fifth Circuit s order will help return the settlement to its original, intended and lawful function - the compensation of claimants who sustained actual losses that are traceable to the Deepwater Horizon accident,  said BP s head of US communications and external affairs, Geoff Morrell. 
         In 2012, BP agreed to make payments to those who suffered economic losses as a result of the largest US offshore oil spill. 
         However, it complained that the payout formula worked out by court-appointed claims administrator Patrick Juneau was too generous and meant that people and businesses were being paid huge sums for false claims. 
         Compensation awards for business losses have slowed since an initial appeals court ruling in October halted some payments, according to Mr Juneau. 
   Rising claims 
	       However, BP warned last week that unless the stronger injunction was granted, it expected payments to pick up again. 
         BP originally projected that the settlement would cost $7.8bn (£4.8bn), but in July increased its estimate to $9.6bn. As of Monday, about $3.78bn has been paid out, according to Mr Juneau.  
         BP has faced about $42.4bn in criminal and civil charges since the disaster aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which triggered the worst offshore oil spill in US history. 
         The blast killed 11 workers and released an estimated four million barrels of oil into the gulf. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25196879#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa