	 Savers  must keep track of pensions 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     A more mobile workforce means that people may build up more pension pots 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Your Pensions 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Defined contribution pensions  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 State pension: The overhaul and you 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 How to save for a pension 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Pension automatic enrolment 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Workers are being urged to keep track of their pension savings with a survey suggesting that 25% of over-55s have four or more pension pots. 
         The number of workplace pension pots in which people have savings will grow as staff become more mobile. 
         One in 10 of over-55s have worked in more than 10 different places during their lifetime, a survey for provider Now Pensions has suggested. 
         The issue has become more acute with the start of automatic enrolment. 
         More and more workers are automatically enrolled into a workplace pension scheme, under a new government regime. 
         Anyone earning more than £9,440 could be signed up to an occupational pension with every new job as a result. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Pension tracing service 
		 
	
	 
	 
       The service , run by the Department for Work and Pensions, is free to use 
      Users enter their details into an online, confidential questionnaire 
      It locates the details of a provider of any lost pensions 
      The policyholder can then write to the provider to get the details of their savings 
      The tracing service can also be contacted on the telephone on 0845 6002 537 
   
	 
	        The government is planning to make it easier for workers who change jobs frequently to take any small pension pot with them and merge it with their next workplace pension. 
         Pensions Minister Steve Webb has proposed that pension savings from auto-enrolment should automatically transfer to their new employer s scheme, although there are fears that this could be a worse deal for some. 
         About a third of those asked in the Now Pensions survey said that they did not know where all their pension pots were, and had failed to inform the provider of a change of address. 
         Each month The Pensions Advisory Service receives around 200 calls and queries from people who are unable to trace their pensions,  said Michelle Cracknell, chief executive of The Pensions Advisory Service. 
         The number of people who spend their working life with one employer are now few and far between. 
         The Department of Work and Pensions also runs a  pension tracing service  that locates lost pensions for individuals. It will then send details of the scheme provider s address to allow the policyholder to gather more information. 
   
                         Are you having difficulty keeping  track of your pension savings? Send us your comments and experiences using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25198932#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa