	 UK construction growth fastest since August 2007 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Houses are going up at their fastest rate for 10 years according to Markit 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 UK Economy 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What is quantitative easing? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What is  forward guidance ? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 GDP explained 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What is inflation? 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       UK construction picked up speed in November with output rising at the fastest pace in more than six years. 
         The Markit purchasing managers  index  (PMI) for the sector rose to 62.6 last month, up from 59.4 in October. 
         The higher the reading above 50, the stronger the growth in activity. 
         The reading comes a day after a related survey showed manufacturing output also strengthening, giving the chancellor a positive background against which to deliver Thursday s Autumn Statement. 
         George Osborne is due to provide his update on the government s economic plans. 
         Tim Moore, senior economist with Markit, said:  Construction activity continues to spring back to life during the final months of 2013. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
If this sort of pace can be continued into 2014, then the level of UK output will have risen above its pre-crisis peak by next summer 
End Quote 
	 David Tinsley 
	 BNP Paribas 

		        However, he said the pick-up was being built on a low base, after years of shrinkage or tepid growth resulting from the credit crisis that was sparked in 2007.  
   Curtailed 
	       The Bank of England s schemes to boost mortgage lending gave housebuilders a shot in the arm.  
         Markit said domestic building activity was its fastest in 10 years.  
         Last week, official data showed the sector grew at 1.7% in the third quarter compared with the previous quarter.  
         The Bank of England last week unexpectedly curtailed its support for mortgage lending under the Funding for Lending scheme, amid evidence that mortgage availability had improved to the extent that it no longer needed support from that quarter.  
         Markit also said commercial construction grew sharply in November. 
         David Tinsley, UK economist at BNP Paribas, said the findings suggested the UK could soon recover the ground lost during the crisis:  These survey indicators are suggesting something like a 1% rise in GDP [gross domestic product] in Q4.  
         If this sort of pace can be continued into 2014, then the level of UK output will have risen above its pre-crisis peak by next summer. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25201692#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa