	 Pawnbroker Albemarle   Bond shares plunge on sale news 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Albemarle   Bond has been hit by falling gold prices 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Pawn broker Albemarle melts own gold 

		 


											




	


	





	 Albemarle   Bond s shares halve 

		 


											




	


	





	 Pawnbroker s shares plunge 

		 


								 
	 
                       Shares in UK pawnbroker Albemarle   Bond have fallen 22% following news it has put itself up for sale amid financial troubles and a number of high-level resignations. 
         Last week, the firm warned on profits and said it was having to melt its own gold supplies to meet lending limits.  
         The business has suffered amid greater competition and a falling gold price.  
         The gold price has fallen 27% since March and pledges, or pawned items, have fallen 12% this year.  
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 Albemarle   Bond Holdings  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 03 Dec 2013, 09:35 ET  
		
			 
				 *Chart shows local time 
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						15.25
						p 
						 				
							 - 
							 -3.75 					
						 
						 		
							 - 
							 -19.74 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       The company said that following last week s trading update it considered it  in the best interests of the company s shareholders to seek to sell the business . 
         On Monday, five directors resigned from the business, including the chairmen and members of the remuneration and audit committees. 
   Smelting 
	       The company s stock market valuation, which is currently about £10m, has fallen by more than 90% since a year earlier. 
         It has taken a number of steps to stem losses, curbing unsecured lending, stopping online lending and undertaking  exceptional  smelting of gold stocks. 
         Despite this, the firm has struggled to keep within its banking facility of £53.5m, with current debts of £50.1m. 
         In October, Albemarle   Bond said it had failed to get support for plans to raise £35m. 
         Those failed plans left the company with administration costs which still have to be paid, further adding to its burden. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25197266#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa