         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/11/2013 @ 11:41PM
             | 23 views
     
		 New Zeland Immigration Acts Like The Stasi - Snowden Fallout? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Stasi 2.0 (Photo credit: Skley) 
   
 
In what is either an example of one individual’s over-exuberance or alternatively a worrying indication of the new global police-state we live in, the New Zealand Herald today  reported  of the Stasi-like actions of the New Zealand Immigration Service.  
A New Zealand citizen, returning home from international travel, was detained by immigration and had all of his electronic equipment confiscated – his smartphones, iPad, external hard drive and laptop were all taken along with a demand that he give the immigration officers the passwords to access them.  
Sam Blackman, a 27 year old recent graduate who ironically studied online copyright infringement, was travelling with his journalist fiance back into New Zealand when the incident occurred at 5:30am after almost 24 hours of flying.  
To add a worrying twist to the story, Blackman had recently attended a talk in London about Edward Snowden and the NSA leaks. New Zealand is part of the Five Eyes spy network and hosts some stations for the initiative along with Canada, the U.S., Britain and Australia. The connection that many would draw is that Blackman’s attendance at the talk was noticed by the network who wanted to gain access to his data to assess whether he was a simple observer or someone, in their eyes, more sinister.  
The story mirrors closely that of David Miranda, the partner of Snowden files journalist Glenn Greenwald, who was detained in transit and whose electronic drives were confiscated by authorities under terrorism regulations. However in that case it was UK authorities detaining Miranda, in this it is New Zealand a country that, five eyes notwithstanding, is not known as one to wield its power quite so overtly. It also worryingly follows the botched Kim Dotcom raids which, while still going through the court system, would appear to be a case of the New Zealand Government wielding its power both illegally and also at the behest of the US Government.  
According to the New Zealand Herald, one of the phones confiscated had no password but required a design to be traced on the screen to unlock it. The detaining official was unconcerned and according to Blackman said that the forensic team would defeat security to access the device. Whether the accessing of private data in New Zealand without a court order is actually legal is a matter for discussion.  
At the time of publication, New Zealand Customs had refused to discuss Blackman’s case. The New Zealand Herald was told that:  

  passengers considered “high risk” received attention at the airport. [and that] Customs officials were required to have “reasonable cause” to believe an offence had been committed. 
 
This is a worrying development domestically in New Zealand, but is even more so in other countries – if US influence extends this strongly internationally, it raises questions about sovereignty, independence and human rights.  





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Amnesty International Is Suing The British Government. Here's Why.
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tamlin Magee 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Tech Companies Seeking Surveillance Reform Spent $35 Million Lobbying Last Year
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Jeff Bercovici 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Social Enterprise Everyone's Waiting For: Journalism, Snowden, Secrets ... And Profit?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tom Watson 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/benkepes/2013/12/11/new-zeland-immigration-acts-like-the-stasi-snowden-fallout/