	 Mobile phone users protected from  shock bills 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The Scottish government say the EU will soon limit roaming charges 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Cameron holds key China talks 

		 


											




	


	





	 Clash over mobile phone charging 

		 


											




	


	





	 Mobile phone  roaming  costs to fall 

		 


											 
	 
                       Mobile phone users will be protected from  sky-high bills  if their phones are stolen under an agreement between the government and four operators. 
         EE, Three, Virgin Media and Vodafone have agreed to a new cap on the maximum customers would be expected to pay. 
         The firms will also tell people of mid-contract price rises, and phone users will then have the option of breaking off the contract without penalty. 
         Culture Secretary Maria Miller said the deal would avoid  shock bills . 
         It follows her meeting with phone companies last month to discuss how to protect consumers. 
         Announcing the agreement as she accompanied Prime Minister David Cameron on his trip to China, she said:  Families can be left struggling if carefully planned budgets are blown away by unexpected bills from a stolen mobile or a mid-contract price rise. 
         This agreement with the telecoms companies will deliver real benefits to consumers and help ensure people are not hit with shock bills. 
         It is thought the cap, which is expected to be in place from spring 2014, will be set at a similar level to the £50 liability cap on stolen credit and debit cards. 
         Consumer affairs minister Jo Swinson said  The last thing you need after the hassle of a stolen mobile is to find that someone has used it and landed you with a sky-high bill too. 
         Phone companies have listened to government and to their customers and I welcome their agreement to protect them from unexpected costs. 
   
                         Will these proposals make a difference? Have you experienced  shock bills ?  Send us your comments and experiences using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-25196425#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa