         

         


         
             Markets 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 2:19PM
     
		 How Long Will The Hewlett-Packard Rebound Last? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Investors who have been chasing after the social networking stocks may have missed out an old technology giant,  Hewlett-Packard   Hewlett-Packard . The company’s stock has gained more than 90 percent in the last 12 months.  
HP’s rebound has been propelled by a string of measures taken by the company’s new leader  Meg Whitman  to streamline operations — laying off thousands of employees, cutting prices for mature products, and placing more emphasis on  enterprise  products that have been an area of strength.  
Last week,  Wall Street  got confirmation that these measures have been working from the company’s Q4. The bright spot on the report was Enterprise products, jumping 12 percent from the earlier quarter, and beating analysts’ expectations; revenues from printing and PC sales registered a slight decline, but they did beat expectations.  
Hewelett-Packard’s Q4  report  and guidance were in sharp contrast to Cisco’s gloom and doom report a few days earlier, which may explain why Wall Street gave another boost to the company’s shares after the Q4 report came out. But with its stock almost doubling from a year earlier, the question is whether the HP rebound is over, or is there still more room for gains.  
HP’s Key Metrics, 12/2/2013  
 
   
    
    Company  
    Forward PE  
    Operating Margins(TTM)  
    Qtrly Revenue Growth (yoy)  
    Qtrly Earnings Growth (yoy)  
    
    
    Hewlett-Packard  
    7.03  
    7.86%  
    -8.2%  
    –  
    
    
    IBM   IBM  
    9.90  
    21.04  
    -4.20  
    5.70  
    
   
 
Source: Yahoo.Finance.com  
 
HP’s Key Metrics, 2/22/2013  
 
   
    
    Company  
    Forward PE  
    Operating Margins(TTM)  
    Qtrly Revenue Growth (yoy)  
    Qtrly Earnings Growth (yoy)  
    
    
    Hewlett-Packard  
    4.90  
    7.95%  
    -6.7%  
    –  
    
    
    Dell  
    8.13  
    5.29  
    -10.70  
    -30.60  
    
    
    IBM  
    10.74  
    20.59  
    -.60  
    6.20  
    
   
 
Source: Yahoo.finance.com  
In a piece published in last weekend’s Barron’s,  Jack Hough  thinks so, including HP in a list of half dozen turnaround stocks. “When an underachieving company cuts costs, pays down debt, wins new customers, or finds other ways to drive profits higher, the result is often a rapid rise in its share price,” writes Hough.  
In another piece published in the same issue,  Tiernan Ray  thinks that HP’s results obscure a number of dark spots, like the margin compression across most of the company’s core business — brought about by price cuts. “The problem HP has, the problem that price chopping and better “execution” cannot fully mitigate, is that it needs a next big thing,” writes Ray.  
We couldn’t agree more. Innovation is the crux of HP’s problem, and it will determine whether the turnaround is sustainable, an issue we have discussed in previous pieces–see insert.  
 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Three Strategic Mistakes That Haunt Hewlett-Packard
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Panos Mourdoukoutas 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Cisco's Leadership Could Learn A Lesson From Warren Buffett
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Panos Mourdoukoutas 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/panosmourdoukoutas/2013/12/02/how-long-will-the-hewlett-packard-rebound-last/