         

         


         
             Leadership 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 2:03PM
             | 24 views
     
		 The Mistake That Leads To Checkmate: Management As Chess 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Most would-be “change agents” strut into a new position … only to find the geography is more complex and treacherous than they’d realized. (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
“I spent today worrying about  menus  for the upcoming conference,” Evan lamented to me once. “Early in my career, I’d sit around with colleagues and we’d blow smoke about how much we’d be able to get done if only we were put in charge of things. Now I’m finally in charge of things–and all I seem to be doing is worrying about the damned menu.”  
I told Evan that there’s a reasonable explanation: From a safe distance, senior management looks easy. From the safe perspective of an armchair quarterback (or a frontline employee or a junior manager), it seems obvious what a real “change agent” needs to get done. And it seems infuriating to see senior managers fail to step up into the role of the Great Changer.  
But once you’re actually thrown into a senior  leadership  position, the perspective becomes entirely different–because as you go higher in the organization, the game board increases in complexity.  
Being a frontline worker can be like playing tic-tac-toe. And becoming a department manager can be like playing on a conventional chessboard that’s 8 squares wide.  
But if you become a vice president, the chessboard you play on is now, say,  16  squares wide. And if you become CEO, the chessboard is  32  squares wide—sometimes on three different tiers!  
You become shaken by the vast complexity. You realize that certain moves that seemed obvious from your old vantage point are blocked by rooks and knights and even damned pawns.  
You find that your brilliant game plan would infuriate key stakeholders or investors. And, in a moment of empathy and mercy, you begin to grasp why your predecessor, whom you used to make fun of behind his or her back, didn’t manage to solve the problems that you inherited.  
Next, you try to buy time and delay checkmate–so you begin to make smaller moves within in a smaller space.  
That menu for the annual conference increasingly takes on a kind of importance for you that it never had before. “I think that most of the attendees would really be inspired by a local seafood specialty,” you opine at the weekly staff meeting. “And hey, if that apple crumble a la mode doesn’t motivate them, nothing will.”  
Next   Next  you begin to call strategy meetings to decide whether the logo should be changed to a different color. “This is the big change we need!” you exclaim.  
In reality, you’re just stalling … as the chessboard closes in on you.  
Becoming a good manager  does  involve maturing to the point that you lose your romantic illusions about how you’ll reinvent the smartphone in the next quarter, or clean up  Washington , DC, or turn a ragtag bunch of misfits into a championship contender. It involves realizing that life isn’t all about bold strategizing and grand speeches; into every managerial career a little (or a lot of) tedium must fall. But the trick is not to drown in it.  
It’s helpful to check in with yourself on a few questions:  
 
  Am I starting to say, “No, it can’t be done” more than I did when I started my career or this job?  
  Have I become exceedingly “reasonable” about goals for myself or my organization, rather than aiming high?  
  Do I define success in this job differently than I did on my first day on the job?  
  Do small, controllable things now take more time on my calendar than the big things?  
 
If you sense that you’ve scaled back excessively on your big hairy audacious goals, the challenge is to find that right balance between handling the trivia and minutiae of any management job, while also holding on to the bigger deals—including, yes, the “ vision thing .”  
The best preparation for leadership, however, stripping away some illusions and hubris. It involves the humility to realize that, like an expanding chessboard, it gets harder as you go along. Otherwise, checkmate is just a matter of time.  
  




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    7 Tips For Toppling Rivals And Enemies
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Rob Asghar 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Discuss Politics At The Office
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Rob Asghar 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/robasghar/2013/12/02/the-mistake-that-leads-to-checkmate-management-as-chess/