         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 1:57PM
             | 386 views
     
		 Media Luminaries Bezos   Kamen 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
   
    
     
    
    
     
    
   
 

  
   Photo: Courtesy of Amazon 
 
In spite of its recent misstep over its  flawed reporting  on Benghazi, CBS News’ “60 Minutes” continues to have the capacity to drive the national conversation. And, sure enough, last night my tech-centric Twitterstream suddenly was consumed by drones — and not the  killing kind . The prolific Charlie Rose just aired his Cyber Monday-pegged segment with the brilliant and affable founder of Amazon, Jeff Bezos.  
Mr. Bezos, who’s giving Marissa Mayer’s  PR department  a run for its money of late, decided to offer “60 Minutes” the “exclusive, first look” at what’s on the horizon at the Seattle-based uber-retailer. “60 Minutes,” in return, obliged Amazon’s PR department by teasing the “big surprise” in the days leading up to Sunday night’s airing.  

  ….whatever the Bezos revelation let’s hope 60 Minutes has its ‘red team’ standing by  
  — emily bell (@emilybell)  December 2, 2013 
 
The public reaction, and subsequent coverage was fast and furious.  
As for this PR executive, I wondered whether it was premature for Mr. Bezos to unveil on such  a public stage  Amazon’s plans to use drones as product delivery vehicles? (I also wondered whether it was premature to unload my holdings in FedEx.)  

  
   The Big Unveil: Jeff Bezos and Charlie Rose 
 
The segment conjured memories of another visionary whose vehicular invention also had the potential to change the world. (No. Not  Elon Musk .) It was late 2001, and the tech world was all abuzz over a leaked book proposal that referenced renowned inventor Dean Kamen’s latest invention, code named “Ginger.” Only a handful of the tech industry’s movers   shakers, including Steve Jobs, were treated to a sneak peek of  Mr. Kamen’s vision , and all were sworn to secrecy.  
The noise surrounding Mr. Kamen’s mystery invention was deafening (and this was before Twitter twinkled in the eyes of Ev, Biz and Jack). I remember mentioning the Ginger fury in my weekly staff meeting and specifically saying what a cool client Mr. Kamen and his much talked about mystery invention would make.  

  
 
Later that day, Mr. Burson summoned me to his office to ask if I can help advise an old friend of his on an issue involving a recently taped profile on “60 Minutes.” Mr. Burson’s friend was Dean Kamen.  
It seems that “60 Minutes” had just finished shooting its piece, pegged to another invention of Mr. Kamen’s — a  wheelchair  that could climb stairs — and the engineer’s work encouraging young inventors.  
Given the fresh noise surrounding “Ginger,” the program came back to Mr. Kamen with a request to update the segment to include details about Ginger (whose launch was still in the planning stages). I advised Mr. Kamen against sitting back down with “60 Minutes,” given the preliminary nature of the invention’s launch. Nonetheless, the inventor went ahead with the interview, though the exact nature of his invention was not revealed…if my memory serves me well.  
Shortly thereafter, a few of us were en route from LGA to Manchester, NH to visit DEKA to meet Ginger first-hand. We didn’t have a clue of what to expect, but soon found ourselves standing on a prototype Segway, which was then called a “Flywheel,” on a small test track. The technology was not only super cool, i.e., just lean forward to advance the human transporter, but the potential impact this machine could make — especially on the environment — was nothing short of revolutionary.  
Price per unit aside, we soon were briefed about the many local and state-level regulatory hurdles that still required clearance in order for the Segway to achieve mass public adoption. Apparently, one couldn’t just ride a Segway on the sidewalks of most municipalities. There was much advance work that needed to be done.  

  
   Launch Day: Dean Kamen Aboard a Segway 
 
At this point, I got pulled onto other clients, but was asked to draft a comprehensive launch proposal for the Segway. In it, I strongly recommended to the account team that Mr. Kamen first build a groundswell of support for his machine from those in the international scientific and environmental media communities before taking it to the public. That didn’t happen.  
The Segway soon made its  public debut  with Mr. Kamen himself riding the machine onto the set of ABC-TV’s “Good Morning America.”  It was a fabulous segment that made a big splash at the time, but frankly didn’t have the legs to sustain this wonderful invention for the ages.  
In watching Jeff Bezos both proudly unveil his vision for a drone-based product delivery system, and also touch upon the regulatory hurdles such a system would face before being allowed to deploy, I thought about the GMA segment with Dean Kamen. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/peterhimler/2013/12/02/media-luminaries-bezos-kamen/