         

         


         
             Personal Finance 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 1:56PM
             | 879 views
     
		 Happy Cyber Monday; Supreme Court Won't Hear Amazon Sales Tax Appeal 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Should sales tax be collected on that tablet or LED television you just bought online at a sweet Cyber Monday sales price? The answer, in many cases, isn’t clear and the U.S. Supreme Court  isn’t about  to clear up the confusion.  
The High Court declined today to hear appeals by  Amazon.com   Amazon.com  and  Overstock.com   Overstock.com  of a March decision by New York’s highest court upholding the constitutionality of that state’s first in the nation “Amazon law”—a 2008 statute requiring  out-of-state Internet sellers with web marketing affiliates in New York to collect New York sales taxes on deliveries to New York residents.  
A dozen other states have copied the New York law, but in October, the Illinois Supreme Court shot down that  state’s 2011 “Amazon” copycat statute . Some lawyers had hoped that the apparent split between state courts would persuade the U.S. Supreme Court to take the case.  As is customary, the Supreme Court issued no explanation today of why it declined to hear (“grant cert”) to Amazon and Overstock .  
When SCOTUS last weighed in on the issue of whether remote sellers must collect a state’s sales tax in 1992, Amazon (let alone  drone delivery by Amazon ) wasn’t even  a glint in  Jeff Bezos ’ eye.  The 1992 decision,  Quill v. North Dakota , involved an old fashioned catalog merchant. The Supreme Court ruled then that under the Constitution’s commerce clause only merchants with a physical presence in a state (nexus, in tax-speak) can be required by that state to collect its sales taxes. The high court pointed out back then, however, that Congress could grant collection powers to the states—a clear invitation for Congress to get involved.  
As Web  retail  sales exploded, states  lost sales taxes and Main Street merchants squealed about unfair competition Congress failed to act. So finally, in 2008, New York’s  fed-up legislature decided the use of New York based marketing affiliates — Internet sites which sponsor links to Web retailers and get paid when those links produce sales—would constitute sufficient physical nexus.  Since then,  a dozen states have copied New York’s  Amazon law,  also known as a  “click-through nexus” law.  
This past May, by a bipartisan 69 to 27 vote,  the U.S. Senate finally passed the Marketplace Fairness Act of 2013 ( S. 743 ) which requires Internet sellers with $1 million a year or more in sales outside their home states to collect each state’s sales tax , provided that state meets some simplification requirements and provides free software to collect the tax.  The bill was backed by the National Retail Federation and such traditional bricks and mortar retailers as Wal-Mart , as well as by Amazon.com, which largely as a result of its growing national network of warehouses , now collects sales taxes from residents of 16 states , including California,  New York and Texas.  
House Republican leaders have said they will fashion their own compromise, rather than consider the Senate passed bill. But so far nothing concrete has happened in that chamber, where any bill would face stiff opposition from anti-tax forces.  Rachelle Bernstein , Vice President and National Tax Counsel for the National Retail Federation, said Monday that  the Supreme Court’s refusal to take the case means “there is that much more need for Congress to write federal legislation to provide clarity and simplicity in this area.” She added that she is hopeful Congress “can pull this together in 2014. There certainly is the need.”  
Currently, residents of the 45 states with sales taxes are supposed to send their home state the applicable sales tax (or “use tax” as it’s technically called when levied on out-of-state purchases) if they buy a normally taxable item from  a web site or catalog merchant that does not collect the tax.  But almost no one does and states have  focused mostly on how they can make Internet retailers collect for them. At one point, Texas was demanding  $269 million in back taxes from Amazon, which later reached a deal with the state to collect its tax.  
“As things currently stand, we have a patchwork of out-of-date and inconsistent cases, laws and regulations across the country which is extraordinary frustrating to consumers and retailers alike,’’ said Chicago lawyer David Blum, who represents both Internet and traditionally bricks and mortar retailers. He added that the confusion places sellers “in the cross-hairs of potential tax assessments.”  He added that he was surprised the Supreme Court didn’t grant Cert. ”It is really unfortunate.  A lot has changed in the past 20 years and we need the U.S. Supreme Court to essentially update its decision in Quill to reflect the contours of a more modern economy.  
New York’s Attorney General Eric Schneiderman argued in a brief that the U.S. Supreme Court shouldn’t hear the Amazon and Overstock appeals, in part because the issue wasn’t yet ripe and there was no genuine conflict between state courts. Indeed, in its decision striking down Illionois’ Amazon law, that state’s high court didn’t actually reach the issue of whether the law was constitutional—the question decided in the New York case. In their 6 to 1 decision , the Illinois justices found the Amazon tax was preempted by a fairly recent law—the Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2000 (ITFA)-which prohibits states from imposing “discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce.”  Ironically, the ITFA expires on Nov. 1, 2014, meaning Illinois’ “preempted” Amazon law could spring back to life then.  
Follow Janet Novack on Twitter . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    365 Ways To Get Rich
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Janet Novack 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Illinois High Court Shoots Down Amazon Sales Tax Law; Will SCOTUS Step In?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Janet Novack 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Avoid Black Friday Lines--And Sales Tax--Online
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Robert W. Wood 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Reverse Showrooming: Best Buy, Amazon And The Internet Sales Tax
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Janet Novack 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/janetnovack/2013/12/02/happy-cyber-monday-supreme-court-wont-hear-amazon-sales-tax-appeal/