         

         


         
             Op/Ed 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 1:52PM
             | 196 views
     
		 Doctors Face A 24% Pay Cut In Both Medicare And Medicaid Reimbursements 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Sign: Hands Off Social Security Medicare Medicaid www.saynocuts.org (Photo credit: Fifth World Art) 
   
 
Doctors seeing Medicare patients face a  24 percent cut  in reimbursements beginning January 1.  But almost no one has grasped that those cuts will hit Medicaid too—thanks to Obamacare.  Unless Congress acts, we’re likely to see a huge exodus of doctors who will not accept either Medicare or Medicaid patients.  
In 1997 Congress passed legislation, known as the “sustainable growth rate” (SGR), to try and reduce Medicare spending.  If Medicare spending grew faster than a predetermined amount, doctors’ Medicare reimbursements would be cut the next year by enough to offset the overspending.  
Not surprisingly, Medicare spending didn’t hit the target rate, and, again not surprisingly, Congress didn’t want doctors to take the financial hit.  So Congress has passed legislation, known as the “Doc Fix,” multiple times to postpone the cuts and keep the reimbursement levels roughly the same.  
But those postponed deficits keep piling up, and come January doctors will see, on average, a 24 percent cut in Medicare reimbursement levels.  And here comes the double whammy: Medicaid reimbursements will face the same 24 percent cut.  
Medicaid pays doctors  about 59 percent  of what Medicare pays them—which is why doctors increasingly refuse to take new Medicaid patients.  As  I pointed out last week , the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) recently  released a document  showing that 9,500 doctors who had previously accepted Medicaid patients refused to do so in 2012.  
In an effort to gain—some might say “buy”—physician support for Obamacare, drafters required Medicaid programs to pay doctors the same rate as Medicare for 2013 and 2014—and that’s all states, not just the ones expanding Medicaid.  (I am told that some states have yet to pay the additional 2013 Medicaid reimbursements, claiming they will do that retroactively in 2014.)  So if Congress doesn’t pass a Doc Fix and Medicare rates go down by 24 percent, then so will Medicaid.  
Together both programs cover more than 100 million Americans, and the government expects about 9 million more people to join Medicaid next year.  More people wanting care and lower reimbursements for seeing them.  
The cuts are just one more slap in the face to doctors trying to provide care to patients with government-provided, price-controlled health insurance.  
Congress will likely find a way to postpone the 24 Medicare percent cut, as it has done repeatedly—making seniors mad is not good for reelection.  But the fix is expensive.  The Congressional Budget Office  recently estimated  that a 10-year fix will cost about $140 billion.  That’s a lot of money in tight budget times, especially since the budget will get even tighter next year because  the sequester cuts  an additional $109 billion in spending.  
Budget negotiators from the House and Senate have been quietly discussing the challenges they face coming up with a budget.  Democrats are eager to change or eliminate the sequester, but many conservative Republicans have come to see it as an effective, albeit blunt, tool for controlling federal spending under a president who refuses to do so.  
Congress may come up with just a one-year—or even six-month—solution to keep Medicare rates, and hence Medicaid rates, the same.  But even that may be difficult given the budget, and the 24 percent cut saves the government money.  
Members of Congress might conclude this time that since defense and several other important federal programs are taking a financial hit, why should doctors get a pass?  After all the American Medical Association has supported the Affordable Care Act all along, though occasionally it raises some tepid objections.  
It’s yet another unforeseen consequence of Obamacare, which Democrats thought would be so popular that it would ensure Democratic control of Congress and the White House for years to come.  
Merrill Matthews is a resident scholar with the Institute for  Policy  Innovation in Dallas, Texas. http://twitter.com/ MerrillMatthews 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    When Will The Government Start Forcing Doctors To See Obamacare Patients?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Merrill Matthews 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    What Happens When You Can't Believe A Thing The President Says?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Merrill Matthews 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Obamacare's Rollout Could Be A Big Problem For Obama And  Democrats In 2014
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Merrill Matthews 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillmatthews/2013/12/02/doctors-facing-a-24-pay-cut-in-both-medicare-and-medicaid-reimbursements/