         

         


         
             Leadership 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 1:51PM
             | 37 views
     
		 Cyber Monday Antidote: An Exhibit of 19th Century American Advertising 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
BY CARMEN NOBEL  
Here’s a nice antidote to all the Cyber Monday ads clogging your inbox today.  Harvard Business School’s Baker Library has a new exhibition that examines the advertising industry before the days of the Internet — or television, for that matter.  
The Art of American Advertising, 1865-1910  showcases the types of ads that appeared in the years following the Civil War — when the railroad industry created a new, national network for manufacturing and distributing consumer goods. (These were the days when “posting” referred to  hanging posters on the sides of buildings .)  

  
   Sugar Cured Hams. Nelson Morris   Co. Trade Card. Bates Trade Card Collection, Harvard Business School (olvwork730514) 
 
The exhibit includes  trade cards, trade catalogs, posters, broadsides, circulars, brochures, souvenir publications, and novelty items along with trade journals and other publications.  And while the items may seem quaint compared with modern marketing techniques, the Reconstruction Era actually shared some advertising commonalities with the dot-com boom.  
“The rise of the Internet in the 1990s had an enormous impact on global business and industry, setting off an explosion of online advertisements as the American advertising industry experimented with new ways of reaching consumers and established new models of working,” said Laura Linard, director of special collections at Baker Library, in a press statement. “The late nineteenth century witnessed a comparable dramatic shift.  Booming industrialization and growth in per capita income fueled commercial expansion and the emergence of the American consumer market, spurring on manufacturers and businesses to produce a fantastic variety of printed materials to advertise their products. This exhibit captures the essence and excitement of that period in US history.”  
The exhibit will be on display in the north lobby of  Baker Library | Bloomberg Center  at Harvard Business School until April 5, 2014.  Those who can’t visit in person can  view the exhibit online .  

  
   A.G. Spalding   Bros. Manufacturers Catalog. Advertising Ephemera Collection, Harvard Business School 
 
 

  
   Thomson Electric Welding Co. : Welding, Tempering, Brazing, Forging, and Shaping of Metals by Electricity. Boston: Thomson Electric Welding Co., [18--]. Trade Catalog Collection, Harvard Business School 
 

  
   Lee   Shepherd Poster. Advertising Ephemera Collection, Harvard Business School (olvwork719988) 




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/hbsworkingknowledge/2013/12/02/cyber-monday-antidote-an-exhibit-of-19th-century-american-advertising/