         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 1:48PM
             | 39 views
     
		 Alabama's Loss Can Benefit The ACC - If It Adds More Seats 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
 
 
  
   
    Florida State battles Miami in the ACC  Wikipedia) 
   
 
 
 
The Atlantic Coast Conference is on pretty good roll right now. A traditionally basketball-centric conference that has long ranked no better than No. 5 in college’s major money sport, football, the ACC has a chance to power up its brand with a national championship on the gridiron this year.  
If only the conference had stadiums large enough to capitalize.  
Auburn’s memorable, last second win over Alabama on Saturday moved Florida State, the ACC’s top football program, to No. 1 in the BCS standings this week, all but assuring the school a spot in the national title game as long as it doesn’t stumble against Duke in this week’s conference championship (the unbeaten Seminoles may well have made it to the BCS title game anyway, though it would have been a tough call had Alabama remained undefeated along with Ohio State).  
Athletic revenue in the ACC has already risen about 13% over the past year, according to figures compiled by USA Today. A $3.6 billion media rights deal with  ESPN   ESPN  boosted the ACC close to other major conferences in television money. The caliber of football seems to be on the rise: in addition to Florida State’s return to prominence, the conference saw Clemson spend most of the season in the top 10, and perennial basketball power Duke break into football’s top 25 for the first time in almost two decades. The  University of Miami  ranked as high as No. 7 before faltering down the stretch. And the University of Maryland, a lame duck ACC club that’s headed for the Big 10, also spent some time in the top 25 (though incoming member Louisville, set to join in 2014, ranks higher).   
The ACC is set up for success – it’s filled with strong academic schools that produce well heeled alumni, and major television markets like Miami, Atlanta and Boston. The ACC may well produce this year’s Heisman Trophy winner – FSU quarterback Jameis Winston. The chance to be the conference that breaks the SEC’s streak of seven straight football titles ought to complete the makeover.  
Yet beyond the immediate $20 million payout for appearing in the BCS title game, the conference’s ability to cash in is minimal, at least initially. The ACC’s media rights deal is locked in until 2027. That leaves the live gate.  
“It’s a matter of selling tickets,” says Dan Fulks, a professor at  Transylvania University  in Kentucky and a financial advisor to the NCAA, noting that ticket revenue tends to move in tandem with alumni donations. “But the ACC doesn’t have the large stadiums.” Those famous 100,000-plus capacity palaces featured in the Big 10 (Michigan, Penn State, Ohio State) and SEC (Alabama and Tennessee) are nowhere to be found on ACC campuses. Only Florida State and Miami play in stadiums that exceed 70,000 seats – most conference facilities are in the 50,000 to 60,000 range, small by powerhouse standards. FSU’s Doak Campbell Stadium, the ACC’s biggest with 82,300 seats, ranks No. 15 nationally.  
Some might say that’s all well and good. Solid teams, good schools, television exposure, 50,000 in the stands every Saturday – what’s wrong with that? A decade ago, probably nothing. In the rapidly growing world of college football it doesn’t quite add up for a major player. If the ACC keeps making football strides, get ready for the next building boom.  
 
Follow Me on Twitter  




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomvanriper/2013/12/02/alabamas-loss-can-benefit-the-acc-if-it-adds-more-seats/