	 RBS fined $100m by US for Iran sanctions violations 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     RBS  acknowledges and deeply regrets these failings , the bank said in a statement 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Big Banking 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 EU fines banks over rate-rigging  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 We ve kept businesses alive - RBS 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Cable hands RBS file to watchdog 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Parties row over Co-op  smears 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       The Royal Bank of Scotland has been fined $100m (£61m, 73m euros) by US regulators for violating US sanctions against Iran, Sudan, Burma, and Cuba. 
         The settlement follows from a 2010 internal investigation by RBS into its historical US dollar payment processes and controls.  
         The violations took place between 2005-09, the US Treasury said. 
         Meanwhile, RBS said it  acknowledges and deeply regrets these failings , in a statement. 
         RBS found that bank procedures removed location information on payments made to US financial institutions from countries like Iran and Cuba. 
   'Flouting our law' 
	       Bank procedures  instructed employees to list the actual name of the Iranian financial institution rather than the Bank Identifier Code in the beneficiary bank field of the payment instructions,  according to regulators.  
         This prevented information about the banks from being included in cover letters and forms sent to US clearing banks. 
         Those institutions then processed the payments, in violation of US sanctions. 
   
   

     US President Barack Obama has attempted to strictly enforce the country s sanctions against Iran 
   
       Furthermore,  according to the New York Division of Financial Services , RBS employees in the UK  received written instructions containing a step-by-step guide on how to create and route U.S. dollar payment messages involving sanctioned entities through the United States to avoid detection . 
         In total, more than 3,500 transactions, totalling approximately $523m, were routed through New York banks in violation of US sanctions. 
         The bank entered into agreements with the Federal Reserve, Treasury Department and New York State Department of Financial Services.  
         We will continue to take aggressive action against those who would flout our law,  said Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence David S Cohen. 
         As part of its investigation, RBS bulked up its compliance workforce by 730 employees since 2011, bringing the total worldwide to 1,700. 
         It also instituted compulsory compliance training for all of its 120,300 employees. 
         Wednesday s settlement follows others by international banks in recent years. 
         Standard Chartered  paid a total  of $674m to US regulators in 2012 for violating sanctions against Iran. 
         And HSBC  paid a record  $1.9bn for laundering money for  drug kingpins and rogue nations . 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25341882#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa