	 Australia prime minister holds Toyota talks 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     There are fears that Toyota may stop manufacturing cars in Australia as well 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Global Car Industry 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Jaguar Land Rover invests in Brazil  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 First woman boss for General Motors 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 GM to stop making cars in Australia 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 In pictures: Ford Mustang 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       Australia s government is holding talks with Toyota in an effort to convince the firm to continue manufacturing cars in the country.  
         The talks comes as Holden, a subsidiary of General Motors, said it will stop making cars in Australia from 2017. 
         That would leave the Japanese company as the only firm making cars there. 
         Toyota has said Holden s decision would put  unprecedented pressure  on its ability to make cars in Australia, stoking fears that it might also leave. 
         Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said he has spoken to the head of Toyota s Australian unit, Max Yasuda. 
         Obviously, the government will be talking to Toyota,  Mr Abbott told Australian network Channel Nine.  We want Toyota to continue. 
         He added:  They are in a slightly different position to Holden. 
         Much more of their local production has been for export. Toyota locally have been much more integrated into the global operations of the company, it seems, than with Holden,  Mr Abbott said. 
   Major impact 
	       Holden blamed a strengthening Australian currency, high manufacturing costs and a small domestic market as the reasons behind its decision. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
The loss in tax revenue, the unemployment payments right across the board will see the Australian government revenues hit, and potentially hit hard 
End Quote 
	 Chris Bowen 
	 Australian shadow treasurer 

		        A strong currency has been one of the biggest issues for carmakers with a presence in Australia in recent years.  
         The Australian dollar has risen nearly 30% against the US dollar over the past five years, making foreign-made cars cheaper for Australian consumers. 
         According to various estimates, nearly 85% of cars sold in the country are imported. 
         Earlier this year, US carmaker Ford announced that it will stop producing cars in Australia from 2016. 
         There are growing concerns that if Toyota decides to leave as well, it will have a big impact on the overall industry and result in thousands of job losses.   
         Some 33,000 people employed in the automotive components sector in Australian would also be affected, according to the Australian Broadcast Corporation. 
         On Wednesday, Holden said its move will result in 2,900 people losing their jobs. 
         Labor opposition shadow treasurer Chris Bowen said Holden s move would have far reaching implications. 
         The loss in tax revenue, the unemployment payments right across the board will see the Australian government revenues hit, and potentially hit hard,  he said. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25344162#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa