	 Boeing wins $6.5bn Air Canada order 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Airlines have been looking to more fuel efficient planes amid rising fuel prices 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Aerospace and Defence 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 New era for Israel s El Al airline  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Airlines warned over pilot shortage 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Boeing leads Dubai order books race 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Dubai prepares for take-off 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Air Canada has ordered 61 Boeing 737 MAX planes worth $6.5bn (£4.2bn) at list prices, a big win for the planemaker over its rival, Airbus. 
         The planes will replace its current fleet of Airbus narrow-body aircraft.    
         Air Canada said the new planes will help it cut fuel and maintenance costs on a per-seat basis by more than 20%.  
         Airlines have been keen to upgrade their fleets to more fuel-efficient aircraft amid high fuel prices and falling profit margins.  
         Renewal of our North American narrow-body fleet with more fuel efficient aircraft is a key element of our ongoing cost transformation programme,  Calin Rovinescu, chief executive of Air Canada,  said in a statement . 
   'Vote of confidence' 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
It's a strong vote of confidence in the 737 MAX 
End Quote 
	 Chris Murray 
	 AltaCorp Capital 

		        The rising demand for fuel-efficient aircraft has triggered competition among planemakers as they fight for a bigger share of the growing market. 
         The 100-200 seat narrow-body - or single-aisle - aircraft market is forecast to generate $20 trillion (£12.8tn) over the next 20 years. 
         The sector is currently dominated by Airbus s A320 and Boeing s 737 aircraft.  
         Air Canada s order includes options and rights to purchase 48 additional Boeing planes.  
         The airline said it was also evaluating the potential replacement of its Embraer E190 fleet with  more cost efficient, larger narrow-body aircraft that are better suited to its current and future network strategy . 
         Analysts said that Air Canada s decision to opt for Boeing planes to replace the existing Airbus fleet was a major endorsement for the US firm. 
         It s a strong vote of confidence in the 737 MAX,  said Chris Murray, an analyst at AltaCorp Capital.  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25329272#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa