	 Rent arrears fastest-growing problem, says charity 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Tens of thousands of renters are worried about arrears 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Your Debts 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Payday lenders:  We are not sharks 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 How to borrow from a credit union 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Where the savvy traveller is going 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Payday loans 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Rent arrears are becoming the fastest-growing debt problem in the UK, according to the Money Advice Trust charity. 
         In the first nine months of this year, its telephone helpline received nearly 20,000 calls from people behind with their rent. 
         That represents a 37% increase compared with the 2011 figure, the charity said. 
         More than half the calls to the National Debtline are now from people renting their home. 
         A recent survey by LSL property services suggested that rents across the country have risen to an all-time high. 
         Rent arrears are now the fastest growing debt problem we help people with at National Debtline,  said Joanna Elson, the chief executive of the Money Advice Trust. 
         We are in danger of falling into a rent debt crisis,  she said. 
         Figures from the Office for National Statistics this week show that the proportion of people renting their homes has increased. 
         In 2012, more than a third of households were renting. 
   Top tips 
	       National Debtline  suggested five priorities for people struggling with their rent. 
   
      Don t bury your head in the sand 
      Work out a personal budget 
      Rent is a priority debt 
      Make sure you receive any housing benefit you are entitled to 
      Speak to your landlord 
          Advice is available through  My Money Steps , through the Citizens Advice Bureau, or over the phone at  National Debtline . The number, which is free, is 0808 808 4000. 
   
                         Are you worried about paying your rent? Are you concerned about debt? If you are happy to speak to a BBC journalist about these issues please complete the form below.  
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25338243#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa