

* Business could be worth more than 3 bln euros -sources 
* Bayer, Lilly, Boehringer doing due diligence -sources * Bayer CEO says interested in expanding animal health
business By  Ludwig Burger  and Arno Schuetze FRANKFURT, Dec 3 (Reuters) - Swiss drugmaker Novartis
 is ready to sell its animal health subsidiary and has
opened its books to Bayer and other rivals interested
in a business that could change hands for more than 3 billion
euros ($4.1 billion), sources familiar with the matter told
Reuters. Germany's Bayer is seeking to bolster its position as a
diversified life sciences company while Novartis Chief Executive
Joe Jimenez and Chairman Joerg Reinhardt have said they are
considering options for non-core assets that lack the scale to
become world leaders. Suitors including Bayer, Eli Lilly of the United
States and Germany's unlisted Boehringer are conducting due
diligence assessments of the business, the financial sources
said. Bayer is interested in expanding its animal health business,
CEO Marijn Dekkers told Reuters at a pharmaceuticals conference
in London on Tuesday, though he declined to comment on whether
it was looking at the Novartis assets. Eli Lilly was not immediately available for comment outside
business hours. Novartis and Boehringer declined to comment. LEADING PLAYERS Combining Bayer's veterinary drug sales of about $1.7
billion with Novartis' $1.1 billion would lift the German
company from fifth place to third or fourth in the global animal
health market, where former Pfizer subsidiary Zoetis
 leads the way. Eli Lilly's veterinary drugs business had $2 billion in
sales last year, making it the No.4 player, while Boehringer was
sixth with $1.3 billion in sales. Merck  &  Co and Sanofi
 sit at No.2 and No.3 respectively, with sales of $3.4
billion and $2.8 billion. The sector is expected to grow faster than the global
economy as ageing western societies spend more money on pets
while livestock farming increases in emerging markets, where
appetite for meat rises with average household incomes. The potential sale of Novartis's animal health business
would be part of a continuing review of group operations, which
last month resulted in the sale of its blood transfusion testing
unit to Spain's Grifols for $1.68 billion. The sources said that Novartis has hired Goldman Sachs
 to assist it in the review. Goldman declined to comment. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/8jYWQliJ3NA/story01.htm