


By Caroline Humer Dec 6 (Reuters) - As millions of people shop online for new
insurance plans under President Barack Obama's healthcare reform
law, about 10 percent of applications to the main website are
not being accurately transmitted, a government spokeswoman said
on Friday. The error rate has improved since HealthCare.gov's
disastrous debut on Oct. 1, which created a political crisis for
Obama as opponents and supporters of the law questioned whether
the most sweeping social program since the 1960s was rushed well
before it was ready. Last week, the White House wrapped up a five-week emergency
effort to fix the most obvious of the website's technical
problems and between midnight on Sunday and noon on Friday,
government health officials said 3.7 million people visited. But the current level of mistakes deeper into the system are
creating a new workload for insurers to verify the details of
their new members and could lead to unwelcome surprises for
consumers if there are mistakes in new policies that take effect
on Jan. 1. HealthCare.gov relays information about new customers in
so-called "834" transaction forms to the private insurance
companies that provide the health plans. The portal serves
people in 36 states while 14 states are running their own online
marketplaces. "We believe nine of 10 transactions are being successfully
transmitted," the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or
CMS, spokeswoman Julie Bataille said at a news briefing. Previously, Bataille has said the majority of errors had
been fixed in these transactions but had not defined either the
current or past rate of mistakes. She said the error rate has fallen, explaining that in the
more than two months since Oct. 1, HealthCare.gov could have
experienced an error in as many as one in four transactions.
Errors include forms not being generated, transmitting duplicate
forms and of forms with technical data being passed incorrectly,
she said. Widespread errors in coverage could add to public complaints
over the law's rollout and provide ammunition to Republican
lawmakers who have campaigned all along to delay or replace the
2010 Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare. "The new process put in place this week is making a
difference. The enrollment files are getting better, but there
is more work to do to ensure consumers are covered," Karen
Ignani, the chief executive officer of insurance industry trade
group, America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), said in a
statement on Friday. BACK-UP SYSTEM Insurers are also working with CMS on testing a short-term
back-up system for the government to pay insurers for the
income-based subsidies that many individuals will qualify for on
the new online exchanges. The permanent system was not built
before the website opened for enrollment. The glitch-ridden consumer end of the website held back
enrollment during October, when fewer than 27,000 people
enrolled through HealthCare.gov. The government set a Nov. 30
deadline for repairs. On Sunday and Monday alone, 29,000 people
signed up, sources familiar with the number said. The enrollment growth has raised questions about how
insurers will keep up if the applications have errors and
whether consumers will think they are covered by an insurance
policy when they are not. For instance, Jason Alford, the director of individual and
marketplace sales at Health First Health Plans in Rockledge,
Florida, said in an interview this week that applications are
still incorrectly displaying if the person is a smoker or a
non-smoker, a factor that determines the premium price in the
state. CMS said that there is a technology team dedicated to fixing
the issues with the transaction forms. The team is overseen by
the general contractor on the project QSSI, a unit of
UnitedHealth Group Inc. In an unusual show of solidarity, AHIP, CMS and the Blue
Cross Blue Shield Association - whose licensees are the largest
players on the insurance exchanges - this week issued a joint
statement to stress their efforts to fix "back end" problems on
HealthCare.gov. Daniel Durham, vice president for policy and regulatory
affairs at AHIP, said this week that insurers will estimate how
much they are owed, and submit that estimate to the government. Once the permanent system is built, the government and
insurers can reconcile the payments made with the plan data to
"true up" payments, he said. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/h14jT5znxp4/story01.htm