	 Qantas shares tumble on shock profit warning and job cuts 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Qantas wants a change in the rules that restrict foreign investment in the airline 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Aerospace and Defence 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 New era for Israel s El Al airline  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Airlines warned over pilot shortage 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Boeing leads Dubai order books race 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Dubai prepares for take-off 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Shares in Qantas sank more than 15% after the Australian airline issued a surprise profit warning and announced 1,000 job cuts. 
         The airline said trading conditions had seen a  marked deterioration  amid tougher competition and slowing demand. 
         Qantas  said in a statement  it expects to makes losses of up to A$300m ($271m; £165m) for July-to-December. 
         Chief executive Alan Joyce said the airline was facing  immense challenges . 
         He blamed record fuel costs, a strong Australian dollar and fierce competition from subsidised rivals. 
         The situation demanded urgent action and the airline would  do whatever we need to do to secure the Qantas Group s future , he said. 
         Qantas also said the outlook for its January-to-June period in 2014 remained  volatile .  
         In August, Qantas reported a net profit of A$6m in the year ending 30 June, bouncing back from a loss of A$244m the year before. 
         The firm s earnings during that period were lifted in part by the A$125m settlement it received from Boeing after it cancelled 787 orders. 
         The Australian aviation market is one of the toughest of anywhere in the world, the carrier said.  
         Last month, Qantas backed a suggestion by Australian Treasurer Joe Hockey that rules restricting foreign investment in the carrier should be changed. 
         Current rules limit total foreign holding of Qantas to 49%, with foreign airlines allowed to own just 35%. 
         Qantas argues that these rules have hurt its growth, not least because its major rival Virgin has benefited from increased foreign investment. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25227315#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa