         

         


         
             Wall Street 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 12:52PM
             | 41 views
     
		 BSGR To Strike Out In Guinea Amid Bribery Probes But Vale Still On Deck 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
by Ana Mano  
 
  
   
    Satellite image of Guinea (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
It’s a plot worthy of a Hollywood thriller:  a deceased West African dictator, lucrative mining rights and an elusive Swiss-based billionaire .  
When the Israeli-French mining tycoon Benny Steinmetz s old his 51 percent stake in Guinea’s Simandou iron core concession to Brazil’s mining giant  Vale   Vale  for  $2.5 billion in 2010, it was proclaimed by some as the deal of the century.  
However, Steinmetz’s company BSGR had originally acquired the rights for just $165 million from the country’s now departed military ruler, fueling rumors that the levers of the deal had been greased with gifts and kickbacks.  
But there is a new sheriff in town and Guinea’s current president Alpha Cond  is expected to cancel BSGR’s rights in Simandou once an ongoing investigation is completed, according to a person familiar with the matter.  
“It will be like declaring a marriage void. It will be like it never happened,” he said.  
A key date in the process is December 10, when the government of the West African country will conclude its probe, which has included asking BSGR to respond to specific allegations of inappropriate gifts and payments to government officials.  
The Guinean parliament is expected to support any decision by Cond , especially after the Supreme Court earlier this month confirmed the results of elections held on September 28 and the president convinced five small parties to join his ruling coalition, the person familiar with the matter added.  
But BSGR has stated publicly that any move to strip them of its mining rights would be illegal.  
Yet once the current administration strips BSGR of its rights, the government will be “legally free” to award the concession to another entity, the person familiar explained. Guinea is also reviewing its laws underpinning such mining concessions and the development of Simandou is crucial for Cond ’s reelection aspirations in 2015, he added.  
However, the dark horse in the whole scenario is Vale. While the death knell may be tolling for BSGR, Vale appears to be still in the race to develop one of the world’s largest deposits of iron ore. Once the corruption allegations became public, Vale withheld around $2 billion still owed to BSGR pending the end of investigations in the US and Guinea.  
One way for Vale to remain active in the project and circumvent any legal challenge by Steinmetz could be to buy out BSGR’s stake in the joint venture – VBG—Vale BSGR Limited – according to a Brazil-based industry source, who added that the parties are currently “discussing price.”  
The forthcoming decision on BSGR comes on the heels of a visit by Cond  to Brazil last week. Despite having the appearance of a state visit, Cond  did not officially meet Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , according to her official presidential schedule. Yet Cond  met with Vale’s director of corporate affairs Rafael Benker for 30 minutes on November 18, according to the person familiar with the matter.  
But Vale is not the only Brazilian company eyeing a piece of Guinea’s natural resources.  
Cond  was also photographed alongside former Brazil President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva during his visit. In fact, Cond  was invited to Brazil by the Lula Institute – a NGO founded by the former president to foster cooperation with Africa and Latin America – according to the industry source. In addition, he said that Lula and Cond  have intensified their relationship since the former Brazilian president began “lobbying for B A” in Guinea. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Arbitration to Nationalization: Resource Investors Face Uncertain Future in Africa
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Pete Guest 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Interesting VALE Put And Call Options For December 6th
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     StockOptionsChannel.com 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Is There No End To Vale's Woes?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Trefis Team 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/mergermarket/2013/12/02/bsgr-to-strike-out-in-guinea-amid-bribery-probes-but-vale-still-on-deck/