         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 12:43PM
             | 263 views
     
		 Don't Worry Alabama Fans, Nick Saban's Football Dynasty Is Still Alive And Well 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Alabama Crimson Tide fans are still reeling from Saturday night’s incredible and improbable loss to the Auburn Tigers in the 78 th  rendition of the Iron Bowl. And it wasn’t just the spectacular ending—when Auburn’s Chris Davis  ran a missed field goal attempt back for a touchdown  with no time left on the clock—that has Bama fans feeling blue. Saban’s team looked a bit out of sync for the entire game. The defense was plagued with mistakes, leaving Auburn receivers wide open in the middle of the field and giving up 296 rushing yards. The Alabama offense—despite some impressive, clock-eating drives—dropped passes all over the field and failed to convert on short third and fourth down runs, which has been a staple of the Saban years. And then, of course, there were the four missed field goals (one was partially blocked). Had Cade Foster connected on any of the three he missed, the Crimson Tide likely would have won. And Adam Griffith’s last-second try was, of course, for the win.  
There was a sense among Bama fans I know that had the game gone into overtime, Auburn would have had the advantage. They had momentum, a running game that was working and a kicking game that wasn’t in complete shambles.  
There was also a sense among Bama fans I know that Saban was outcoached my Auburn’s Gus Malzhan, and this is the part of the game and its aftermath that has them left feeling tightness in their chests.  
But I would humbly suggest that Alabama fans need not panic just yet. The Crimson Tide football program is still in excellent shape and may get even better in the coming years. Nick Saban, the  highest-paid  and  most powerful college football coach  in the nation, has won three of the last four national championships and is inarguably the best coach in the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) era. There is ample reason to believe that he won’t stop there. Some evidence:  
– Saban has only six losses in the last five years.  That’s six “bad” games during that stretch, in a sport that is highly unpredictable and emotional (especially at the collegiate level) and in an SEC conference that has undeniably been the best in the land during that time period. In 2009 Alabama went undefeated. In 2010, Saban’s team lost at South Carolina and at LSU, and then lost the Iron Bowl to an Auburn team that would go on to win the national championship. In 2011 Saban lost 6-9 in overtime to LSU. In 2012 he lost to Texas A M during Johnny Manziel’s Heisman Trophy-winning year. And then came this year’s loss.  
This is simply a remarkable record.  
– Auburn has made a quick recovery under Malzhan, which is good for Alabama.  Alabama had won the previous two Iron Bowls by a combined score of 91-14. Having an intense rival like Auburn become relevant again will likely be good for Saban and Alabama, just as it is for the world’s best companies. Complacency, Saban has said time and again, is the enemy of the successful. More competition on the field and off the field (for recruits, coaches, etc) will mean less complacency.  
– And speaking of recruits… Saban is arguably the best recruiter in college football history. In 2011, he had the number one ranked recruiting class. Same for 2012 and 2013. And yes, his 2014 class is, so far,  also the top-ranked one in the country . Saban calls his recruits the “raw materials” that set the base for the program. His cupboard is overflowing with the talent ingredient.  
– The end of the BCS will be good for Saban.   Next   Next  year college football will start its  four-team playoff system . That will alleviate the pressure to win every single game every year for Saban, something that’s virtually impossible to do in the SEC. There will still be huge pressure—losing more than one game will likely end any championship hopes. But at the very least, there will now be a tiny margin of error. Saban recovers from losses well: The three-loss season in 2010 was followed up with a one-loss season in 2011. That loss in 2011 (to LSU) was avenged in the national championship game. The 2012 loss to Texas A M was avenged this year. And this year? Had the playoff system been in place this year, Alabama would likely have made the field and would have been among the strong favorites to win it all.  
– Nick Saban will likely stay at Alabama for the foreseeable future.  OK, given Saban’s history, this is no guarantee. And there was the report that his agent, Jimmy Sexton,  had been in contact  with Texas. But that’s what agents do. The single most important bit of information concerning Saban and his job came out last week when his wife, Terry,  said that he is staying at Alabama . Nick listens to her. Alabama fans should, too. The rumor was that she was the catalyst for Saban’s jump from LSU to the NFL, and that they make all decisions related to his career together. So when she says, “We’re not going anywhere,” it’s most likely true.  
But Bama fans should also listen to Terry Saban when she says this about her husband’s current job: “People get spoiled by success and there gets to be a lack of appreciation.”  
–  
Follow me on Twitter .  
My book about former TD Ameritrade CEO-turned-football coach, Joe Moglia: “ 4th AND GOAL: One Man’s Quest to Recapture His Dream .” 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Five Leadership Lessons From Nick Saban
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Monte Burke 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    The Most Powerful Coach in Sports
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Monte Burke 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/monteburke/2013/12/02/dont-worry-alabama-fans-nick-sabans-football-dynasty-is-still-alive-and-well/