         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 12:36PM
             | 50 views
     
		 Gender and the Box Office 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
This past weekend was a record breaker at the box office for films starring female characters.  Catching Fire  continued its march towards being one of the top grossing films of the year raking in another $74.5 million over the weekend and $110.1 million from Wednesday-Sunday giving it a total of almost $300 million in 10 days here in the US. That’s on top of a little over $275 million overseas. It is already the third top grossing film of the year and it really does have potential to overtake  Iron Man 3  as the top grossing film of the year.  
If it is able to gross $410 million — which really is conceivable — the film would be the  first  film that stars a woman to be at the top of box office for the year. Taking a look back all the way to 1990, films starring a woman or women have never led the box office at the end of the year.  The only time it even came close was in 1997, with  Titanic, which starred  Leonardo DiCaprio  and Kate Winslet. All the rest of the top grossers are action adventure, superhero, Harry Potter or animated. Not a single woman.  
This past week also marked the arrival of Disney’s latest animated film  Frozen . It made a whopping $93 million since its opening last Wednesday and $66.7 million for the weekend.  Catching Fire  together with  Frozen  broke Thanksgiving box office records and are playing on a combined 7,905 screens across the country. That means that you really can see movies that star female characters in every corner of the country. I’m not sure this has ever happened in this way before. We complain about not being able to see women and now we can, so we must.  
But even though we have these successes, I don’t want us to get ahead of ourselves declaring that Hollywood has achieved gender parity. Far from it. But these are some good steps forward.  
While  Frozen  may have a female co-director and a female screenwriter — Jennifer Lee,  Catching Fire  does not have a female screenwriter or director, but it does have a female producer — Nina Jacobson. Producing is one of the areas where the number of women have had more success — last year 25% of the top 250 grossing films were produced by women — yet, the top grossing box office films have fewer female producers. Not including  Catching Fire ,  according to Variety  the top grossing films of the year have 22 producers listed and only three are women – Deborah Snyder and Emma Thomas on  Man of Steel  and Dede Gardner on  World War Z .  
The success of  Frozen  and the fact that the audience was almost half male merited  a piece in the NYTimes discussing how nervous the studio was about getting boys to see the film because it was about princesses and most boys would rather eat dirt than see a movie about a princess. On the one hand, I don’t understand why we keep having to deal with princess movies. It’s as if girls can’t have any other “strong” role in animated films. But at least these princesses have evolved. Last year we had Princess Merida from  Brave  who refused to get married like she was supposed to, and now we have sisters Elsa and Anna who after the loss of their parents are left in charge of the kingdom. Poor Elsa can’t control her powers and turns everything she touches into ice and is only freed by the love of her sister.  
Honestly, I am a huge fan of the film.  I have been singing  Let It Go  the anthem from  Frozen  for the last week and think it is close to one of my favorite movies of the year, but I can’t stop thinking about why only princesses?  Is it that we just can’t let our female characters have too much? We can let them outside the “girl” box just oh so far and then we need to reel them back in to make sure that they — and we — know our places? And while girls across the country are singing Elsa’s power anthem of freedom you may have noticed in the movie that as she was singing and making her ice queendom she was doing it in high heels and a revealing dress. One icy step forward. One icy step back.  
The gender roles that are personified at the box office reflect how we treat women in our culture.  It still bothers me that  Frozen – and all other movies about women — get taken more seriously when they are able to get the boys and men in the door. This is a very complex societal issue and here it is just played out at the movies. Women all the time go and see movies about strong men as a given because that is what we are offered. No one ever questions whether we are going to go see  The Avengers . We need boys not to only believe that it is the men who do the saving, but sometimes it is the men who need to be saved by the women.  Or better yet, how about no saving in a movie or two. It is a big step forward that the sisters in Frozen are not rescued by the men, and that in  Catching Fire , Katniss is the one doing the rescuing.  
While these films are clearly pushing the boundaries with their box office success and their strong female characters now is not the time to think that things are satisfactory, in fact, now is the time to build on these successes. Hopefully, this morning in Hollywood, executives are checking these box office grosses and are asking their staffs to find them the next great female role model believing full well that they can have the next box office success.  




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/melissasilverstein/2013/12/02/gender-and-the-box-office/