         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 12:31PM
             | 19 views
     
		 Bringing France To Istanbul, Finding Himself Along The Way 




             
         

         
             
	                    
	                 	 
	                     
	                     
	                     
							 Damaso Reyes , Contributor 
	                     
             
         
         
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Ekim left France to find part of himself. 
 
When you cross the Bosphorus on a daily basis as hundreds of thousands of Istanbulites do you notice the color of the water. Unlike New York’s East River for example, the color and tone of the straight can vary significantly from day to day or even hour to hour. The waterway that divides the city and  Europe  from Asia is more often than not a deep cobalt blue. After a big storm or a few days of rain however the aquatic passageway can take on a light sapphire hue or even a foamy blue-green complexion. You might say that the Bosphorus is as changeable and complex as any person in Istanbul.  
Ekim  zt rk was born in Paris to a Turkish father and French mother in the early 1980′s after his parents met at university in the city of Tours, southwest Paris, in the early 1970′s. For a time they lived in Ankara but like so many others fled Turkey after the  military coup of 1980 .  
Ekim grew up in a diverse Parisian suburb where in his working class primary school the class was evenly split between the children of immigrants and those with ethnic French parents. Because many of his classmates were from north and west Africa he found himself as the only French-Turkish pupil in his grade.  

  
   “Today I think of myself as an international citizen,” he says. 
 
Every year, starting at age five, he would visit Turkey for two months in summer where he became more fluent in his father’s native tongue and, as he put it, he began to explore the “other side” of his identity.  
“Today I think of myself as an international citizen,” he tells me as we sit under a tree drinking Turkish tea at the  Institute Francias  where he is in charge of the culture section. He says he defines himself not simply by where he was born but through the values of “tolerance, democracy, and respect for all cultures,” he adds.  
He moved to Istanbul five years ago after studying international law at the Sorbonne and going on to get a master’s degree in international relations. During school he spent time in Turkey as an  Erasmus exchange student and later did an internship in Istanbul which fed his adolescent dreams about what it would like to live in Turkey. He often thought about the fact that if his parents hadn’t fled the military coup he would have been born and raised in Turkey instead of France. Ekim says he never experienced overt racism or discrimination in France but came to Turkey to find a part of himself.  

  
   Ekim has a prominent place in the French expatriate community in Istanbul. 
 
“I didn’t want to ‘leave’ France; I wanted to have an experience here. For how long I didn’t know then and I still don’t know,” he pauses to take a drag from his cigarette and briefly smoke envelopes his elegantly narrow face and closely cropped hair. His hazel colored eyes engage me directly as he explores his life and what brought him to Istanbul.  
“I’m very happy to have the chance to grow up in France, to benefit from the educational system, the culture, the social rights but it makes me different than the average Turkish person.” He pauses to rub his face, on it a growth of facial hair a few days old which gives the impression neither of wanting to be a beard nor of being a byproduct of a hurried morning in which there was not enough time to shave. He continues “Turkish people ask me ‘What is better: France or Turkey?’ It depends on what you want to do with your life,” he says with a short, Gallic laugh.  
For Ekim all those comforts of home could not replace something more profound for which he was searching.  
“I discovered not just a new identity but the identity of this country, which is very diverse.” Three years ago he traveled to his father’s village in eastern Anatolia for the first time as an adult. To him it was a pilgrimage of sorts. “It was important for me to see where my father was born and grew up.”  
But it was Istanbul, the bustling metropolis that spans two continents, which drew him close.  
“I discovered the country through Istanbul because Istanbul has changed as Turkey has changed,” he tells me. Ekim firmly roots the city within a larger context. “Is Istanbul in Europe? Of course its in Europe; it’s in Turkey; it’s in the Balkans; it’s in the eastern Mediterranean, in the Aegean Sea; it’s in Greece. It’s an international place.”  
Most Europeans of Turkish descent who now live in Turkey are described as having “come back” while in reality they themselves are immigrants to a country and culture they have varying degrees of familiarity with.  

  
   Ekim is one of a growing number of Europeans of Turkish descent who are moving to Istanbul. 
 
As he has evolved so has the country around him. The phenomenal economic growth the city and nation has experienced exploded the middle class. Shopping malls have sprung up out of thin air and along with a desire for iPhones and dresses from Desigual a desire to participate more fully in political life has also grown. The Gezi park protests, which erupted this spring after plans were revealed to destroy one of Istanbul’s last remaining green spaces and replace it with a mall, are a sign to Ekim of both how far the country has come and how much further it needs to go.  
“It has revealed the problematic side of urbanization,” he notes comparing the challenges that Istanbul has faced growing from a city of one million in 1945 to 12.5 million today to those of cities like Cape Town and Rio de Janeiro. But within this maelstrom he still admires the strong social bonds which hold Turkish society together, bonds he feels are absent in France despite all the modern comforts that exist there.  
“The door remains open,” he responds when asked if he will ever move back to France. “Who knows? Perhaps, maybe in a few years, I will want to go back.” For the moment his job, which is to help bring French culture to Istanbul keeps him busy moving between both cultures and both worlds.  
 
This series is made possible by the French-American Foundation’s Immigration Reporting Fellowship and a grant from the Ford Foundation .  
  




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Finding Europe's Lost Generation
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Damaso Reyes 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    A Moderate Radical From Iran Succeeds In Swedish Politics
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Damaso Reyes 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    A Turkish-German Actor Bridges Europe And Asia
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Damaso Reyes 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Immigrants Learning To Live Like Chameleons
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Damaso Reyes 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2013/12/02/bringing-france-to-istanbul-finding-himself-along-the-way/