         

         


         
             Retail 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 7:51AM
             | 36,156 views
     
		 Black Friday 2013 Backfires On Retailers. Can Cyber Monday Save Them? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    12 comments, 6 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
None of us know exactly how Black Friday and the whole Thanksgiving weekend of sales really ended – my observation is that this year the whole dynamic was changed by Thursday night openings followed by more specials on Friday with an additional promotional push by many stores offering deep discounts.  
I think that Walmart changed the whole tempo by opening on Thursday at 6 PM with big value promotions followed by additional great value specials at 8 PM.  Walmart stores were open nationwide, except in Maine, where, because of blue laws doors opened at 12.01 AM, and Massachusetts and Rhode Island where doors opened at 1 AM.  All Walmart specials had a 1-hour in stock guarantee, which assured customers that they did not have to sprint to the items they wanted when the doors opened. Walmart offered yet another round of specials at 8 am on Friday.  
This aggressive, yet sequential on-going promotional cadence, changed the mood of the consumer. People still headed for the $98 32” special buy TV, or the $688 60” Vizio TV, or the $299 IPad mini with a $100 Walmart gift card. However they did not try to kill each other in a stampede as in years past—creating an entirely different tone to the weekend.  Many people shopped on Friday – leisurely but determined–in shopping centers throughout the United States. The Boston Globe called it a “Grey Friday” since they felt that the same intensive shopping had been spread over a longer period – giving customers more time.  
I think the frenzy to offer great values on the post Thanksgiving shopping days may have backfired. Stores did well, but it did not bring much more business than in past years. I think the shopping shifted and the pace slowed down in the afternoon of Black Friday and continued on Saturday and Sunday at a more leisure pace. I estimate that sales increased for most retailers by fractional amounts, with the exception of J.C.Penney which enjoyed much stronger business than last year when the company was not promoting effectively. Overall, I estimate that sales increased by 3-6%, not enough to make up for the shorter selling period.  
Despite this, I think there were still some retailers that drew traffic and drove business.  I think specialty stores like The Gap, Old Navy, Oshkosh and others who had 50% off sales in their total store had a strong customer response and did very well. Among the department stores Macy’s and J.C.Penney saw big crowds.  J.C.Penney had some of the longest lines at its registers.  Even Kohl’s grabbed the consumers attention on Black Friday with some strong electronic and apparel buys and gave away a $15 Kohl’s Cash bonus for every $50 spent in the store. Certainly the cold weather helped move outerwear and sweaters in all stores.  
But wait…it’s not over.  Not by a long shot. Monday is Cyber Monday where special values are available on the Internet. Some stores, like Macy’s and Best Buy make these values available in stores as well as online. On Sunday and Monday, December 1 and 2, J.C.Penney has a sale called “More Fa La La for less Moo La La” which will be followed by “The Big Sale”. Target is running a Cyber Week Sale and on Wednesday December 4 Macy’s launches a strong Friends   Family event.  None of this is a surprise and underscores the promotional environment I had forecast.  
There was a time when customers came to the store to shop on Black Friday with their children. They wanted to know what their kids wanted for Christmas by wandering through the toy departments of department stores. In the 1950′s I was a department manager in Macy’s Herald Square and remember all the broken toys we had to cart off the floor after the kids left. But the real shopping and buying came days later, when the parents came back to buy gifts for their whole family.  
That mood is gone – it was a much more genteel shopping experience, and the specials were less important than the full assortment that reflected the latest trends in fashion and the merchandise could be worn next year.  Customers had time to consider their purchases and make careful selections knowing they’d be hanging on to the items for quite some time.  Today, the purchasing is driven by here and now promotions that have become essentially daily occurrences during the Holiday season, making the sale events a blur, with the total retail sales number growing modestly as demand is spread around but not boosted all that much.  

  The 10 Retailers That Have the Most To Gain -- And Lose -- This Holiday Season 




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/walterloeb/2013/12/02/why-black-friday-2013-fades-into-a-big-blur/