         

         


         
             Markets 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 12:28PM
             | 184 views
     
		 A Great Seasonal Opportunity 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Maury Fertig, CPA, Co-founder and Chief Investment Officer, Relative Value Partners LLC  
Maury Fertig:  We started our firm in 2004 and prior to that my partner, Bob Huffman, and I were with Salomon Brothers where we spent 17 years covering institutional clients. In looking for a second career we decided that there was a real lack of options for investment professionals in terms of having their money managed with an eye towards performance. So that was the basis on which we started our company: to manage our own money and that of many of the colleagues that we had worked with at various Wall Street firms over the years.  
We figured that we’d try and build a model that was a little different than what was out there, because for most of the professionals their choices were going to a brokerage firm or doing it themselves. Since they were very busy, we would provide an alternative approach.  
Wally Forbes:  So you were aimed at other investment professionals as your clients. Is that correct?  
Fertig:  That’s correct. That is the core of our client base. When we opened the door, at least during our first couple years, 75% to 80% of our assets under management were all from people who worked on Wall Street or people that worked at money management firms. It’s not quite as dominated by investment professionals as it was back then, but they still make up at least 40% of our client base.  
Forbes:  Right. It’s very interesting that your client base is made up of people who are professionals in the business themselves.  
Fertig:  We have clients who work at all the major Wall Street firms and at many of the larger investment management firms around the country. This forces you to be at the top of your game, because you’re dealing with sophisticated investors that really understand how they are doing. We can’t sweet talk our way around poor performance.  
In order to generate some real alpha (excess return), we incorporated closed-end funds into our strategies. I had been investing in closed-end funds since the late ’80s and found them a fascinating place that is driven by the emotional investing of retail investors. It creates phenomenal opportunities at different points in time if you can take advantage of the situation.  
Forbes:  So it’s funds you stick to? Not individual securities but funds?  
Fertig:  That’s correct. ETFs and closed-end funds. We figured that there’s a lack of institutional following of closed-end funds. So it creates some very nice opportunities for investors that are paying close attention and understand the underlying funds, the risks associated with them, and can take advantage of the opportunities. And right now in particular, as we’re in this fall tax loss season, there’s a lot of opportunity from a value standpoint — more so than there’s been in several years right now in closed-end funds.  
There are two elements driving values this year. One is if you look at the flow of funds going from individual investors up through May of 2013 when the taper talk began, retail investors have been pulling hundreds of billions of dollars out of fixed-income funds. And that’s mainly been in mutual funds. But they’ve been selling their closed-end funds as well.  
So what you see happen in the form of sentiment change is often expressed in the closed-end funds. We’ve seen the median discount of a fixed-income closed-end fund move about 9% wider this year, which is a tremendous move for the entire market since April.  
Then you couple the fact that there’s been $25 billion of closed-end fund issuance in the last two years and most of that, about 90% of it, has been focused on income strategies – primarily fixed-income funds. So you have these people that have bought these funds, some as recently as this May, and the majority of them are now underwater.  
Not only are they trading at lower than their IPO prices, they’re now trading in many cases at discounts of 5% or more. With some funds that we’re looking at they’re as wide as 13% and that just came literally a matter of months ago, because investors want out and there are not enough buyers lined up right now to take up the supply.  
Forbes:  So instead of individual stocks, you’re looking at what is going in the funds markets.  
Fertig:  That’s right. And it’s affected equity funds a little as well — although it’s not to the same extreme because there hasn’t been much supply. It’s caused a little bit of down movement in the equity funds as well. But the fixed-income funds are where the real price action has been. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    3 Great Stocks Selling For Far Less Than What They Are Worth
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Wallace Forbes 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    4 Emerging Growth Stocks For Your Portfolio
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Wallace Forbes 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    9 Financial Stocks With Significant Upside
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Wallace Forbes 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/wallaceforbes/2013/12/02/a-great-seasonal-opportunity/