         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/02/2013 @ 12:20PM
             | 54 views
     
		 Joy In Schadenfreude, The German Government Avoided Tax In Ireland 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
If you’ve been watching the European scene at all recently you’ll know that various of the continental governments have been very upset with Ireland as a result of the country’s low business tax rates. Given that any company can base themselves in any EU country and then trade in all of them the way that Ireland’s corporate income tax is lower than that in many other countries has meant that there’s a leakage of tax out of those other countries. And one of the countries that has been complaining about it vociferously has been Germany. To the point that they tried to insist that when Ireland needed a bailout a rise in that tax rate should have been a pre-condition.  
But as the Irish Times gleefully announces today that same German government (and yes, this is the government, not just some company) has been using Irish shell companies to do some tax dodging of its own. In fact, in an attempt to cook the government’s books and make it look as if Germany met the EU targets for deficits and  the like :  

  German politician Peer Steinbr ck – one of the fiercest critics of Ireland’s tax regime – used Irish letter box companies when finance minister to try to balance the German budget through financial engineering.  
  Mr Steinbr ck – an unsuccessful candidate in the recent German election – and his Social Democratic Party (SPD) have been particularly vocal critics of Ireland’s tax laws.  
  He used the recent election campaign to attack failed finance market alchemy and condemn “tax oases” such as Ireland and the Netherlands.  
  According to this morning’s Der Spiegel magazine, Berlin began doing business in Ireland to tap into pension funds of Germany’s post office, which was privatised and broken up in 1995 into three companies for telecoms, post and post office bank. 
 
When that post office was privatised there was the thorny question of what to do with the pensions liabilities. And there’s a strange way that government future debts for pensions are recorded. In essence, they’re not recorded, not recorded as a future liability that is. A private company must record what it will owe in the future, but not a government. So, in order to make the government budget deficit look a bit better what they did was collect the money that should be used to fund those future pensions from those three now privatised companies and then stick it all in post box companies based in Ireland. This is income, an asset, of the government. But the corresponding liability, those future pensions that must be paid, simply disappears in a puff of smoke.  
It should be said that this trick isn’t unusual: the British government recently used it with the post office pensions as that was privatised, the Portuguese government has form here as well. We did rather think the Germans were better than this: at least, they tell us they are better than this often enough.  
It should be pointed out though that this story gets even better:  

  Worse, the pension fund members were told that some €2.8 billion in income from the Irish-based companies was invested in special-purpose vehicles including those of Dexia, the failed Belgian-French bank nationalised in 2011 with €90 billion of public money. 
 
Yep, the money they were shifting around they managed to invest into a bank and their CDOs that then went bust.  
There is such joy in schadenfreude, isn’t there? 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2013/12/02/joy-in-schadenfreude-the-german-government-avoided-tax-in-ireland/