	 Atlantic Array wind farm  dropped by developer 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The 222m (721ft) tall turbines would be capable of producing enough electricity for up to 900,000 homes said the developer 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Councillors against Atlantic Array 

		 


											




	


	





	 European concern over Atlantic Array 

		 


											




	


	





	 Councillors reject Devon wind farm 

		 


																	 
	 
                       A huge wind farm off the North Devon coast will not go ahead, the BBC understands. 
         Sources have said developer RWE Innogy is pulling the plug on the 240-turbine Atlantic Array project. 
         The scheme, which is still in the planning stage, has attracted criticism with environmentalists worried about its impact on marine wildlife in the Bristol Channel.    
         No-one at RWE Innogy was available for comment. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
We all need electricity, but there are more appropriate places 
End Quote 
	 Derek Green 
	 Manager of Lundy Island nature reserve 

		        The Atlantic Array is planned in an area 200 sq km, (77 sq miles) about 16.5km (10 miles) from the north Devon coast, 22.5km (14 miles) from south Wales coast and 13.5km (8 miles) from Lundy Island nature reserve. 
   'Financing problems' 
	       The turbines would be 220m (721ft) tall and capable of producing 1,200 megawatts of electricity - enough for up to 900,000 homes the developer has said. 
         BBC South West Political Editor Martyn Oates said:  Sources have told us that this will not now go ahead because of problems in financing it. 
         Just last week, [green energy group] Regen SW said that the government s recent announcement that it is going to cut back on green levies to support renewable energy was already undermining investment in the region and putting jobs at risk. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Atlantic Array 
		 
	
	 
	 
      Up to 240 turbines 
      Turbines will be up to 220m (721ft) high 
      Capacity: 1,200 MW, enough to power about 900,000 homes 
      About 16.5km from the closest point to shore on the north Devon coast, 22.5km from the closest point to shore on the South Wales coast and 13.5km from Lundy Island 
      Connected to mainland at Alverdiscott, Devon 
   
	 
	        And in terms of investment and jobs, this is a really big project, the company (RWE) says it would provide thousands of jobs. 
         Derek Green, manager of Lundy Island, said:  If it s true then we are absolutely delighted. 
         It is fantastic news for tourism and wildlife in the Bristol Channel and in particular for Lundy. 
         Lundy s owners, the Landmark Trust, have spent the last 40 years  preserving a special way of life . 
         We were concerned that by bringing development so close to the island that it would overwhelm it,  said Mr Green. 
         There are many turbines near Landmark Trust properties which we haven t opposed. 
         But we have always said that offshore wind farms should be built offshore and this suite was in the middle of the Bristol Channel. 
         We all need electricity, but there are more appropriate places. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
