

NEW YORK/WASHINGTON Nov 30 (Reuters) - Two of the biggest
U.S. airlines, American and Delta, have
notified Chinese authorities of flight plans when travelling
through an air defence zone Beijing has declared over the East
China Sea, in line with U.S. government advice. 
The United States said on Friday it expected U.S. carriers
to operate in line with so-called notices to airmen issued by
foreign countries, although it added that the decision did "not
indicate U.S. government acceptance of China's requirements." A spokesman for Delta Airlines said on Saturday it had been
complying with the Chinese requests for flight plans for the
past week. American Airlines said it was also complying, but
declined to say for how long it had done so. Airline industry officials said the U.S. government
generally expects that U.S. carriers operating internationally
to comply with notices issued by foreign countries. In contrast, two major airlines in Japan, America's close
ally, have agreed with the Japanese government that they would
fly through the zone without notifying China. China published coordinates for the zone last weekend. The
area, about two-thirds the size of the United Kingdom, covers
most of the East China Sea and the skies over a group of
uninhabited islands at the centre of a bitter row between
Beijing and Tokyo. Beijing wants all foreign aircraft passing through the zone
- including passenger planes - to identify themselves to Chinese
authorities. China's declaration of the zone represents a historic
challenge by the emerging new world power to the United States,
which has dominated the region for decades. The United States, Japan and South Korea have defied the
Chinese move by flying military aircraft, including giant U.S.
B-52 bombers, through the zone without informing Beijing. An official of the U.S. administration said China's action
appeared to be a unilateral attempt to change the status quo in
the East China Sea, which could "increase the risk of
miscalculation, confrontation and accidents". "We urge the Chinese to exercise caution and restraint, and
we are consulting with Japan and other affected parties
throughout the region," the official said. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is due to visit China, Japan
and South Korea next week, and will try to ease tensions over
the issue, senior U.S. officials said. On Friday, China scrambled jets after two U.S. spy planes
and 10 Japanese aircraft, including F-15 fighters, entered the
zone, China's state news agency Xinhua said. The jets were
scrambled for effective monitoring, it quoted air force
spokesman Shen Jinke as saying. The Chinese patrol mission, conducted on Thursday, was "a
defensive measure and in line with international common
practices", Shen said, according to Xinhua. "China's air force is on high alert and will take measures
to deal with diverse air threats to firmly protect the security
of the country's airspace," he said. However, Defence Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said it was
"incorrect" to suggest China would shoot down aircraft which
entered the zone without first identifying themselves. He did
not elaborate. U.S. flights were "routinely" transiting the zone, U.S.
officials said on Friday. Flights in the past week included a
training mission for two unarmed B-52 bombers. "These flights are consistent with long standing and well
known U.S. freedom of navigation policies," Pentagon spokesman
Colonel Steve Warren said. "I can confirm that the U.S. has and
will continue to operate in the area as normal." A U.S. defence official said routine operations included
reconnaissance and surveillance flights. STRAINED TIES Japanese carriers  ANA Holdings and Japan Airlines
 have flown through the zone without informing China.
Neither airline has experienced problems. The airlines said they were sticking with the policy even
after Washington advised U.S. commercial airlines to notify
China when they fly through the zone. China's Foreign Ministry said on Thursday there had been no
impact on the safe operation of international civilian flights
since the zone had come into force, although China "hoped"
airlines would co-operate. Ties between China and Japan have been strained for months
by the dispute over the islands, called the Diaoyu by China and
the Senkaku by Japan. Mutual mistrust over military intentions and what China
feels is Japan's lack of contrition over its brutal occupation
of parts of China before and during World War Two have added to
tension. "It's important for both sides to take a calm approach and
deal with the situation according to international norms,"
Japanese Defence Minister Itsunori Onodera told state
broadcaster NHK on Saturday. Onodera said the Japanese military
had not noted any Chinese aircraft in the zone. Although Washington takes no position on the sovereignty of
the islands, it recognises Tokyo's administrative control and
says the U.S.-Japan security pact applies to them. Europe's top diplomat, Catherine Ashton, said the European
Union was concerned about China's decision to establish the new
air defence zone as well as its announcement of "emergency
defence measures" if other parties did not comply. "This development heightens the risk of escalation and
contributes to raising tensions in the region," Ashton said.
"The EU calls on all sides to exercise caution and restraint." CRITICISM China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang criticised
Ashton's remarks, saying China hoped the European Union could
treat the situation "objectively and rationally". "Actually, Madam Ashton should know that some European
countries also have air-defence identification zones," Qin said.
 "I don't know if this leads to tensions in the European
regional situation. European countries can have air-defence
identification zones. Why can't China?" Although there are concerns over the increased tensions, the
United States and China have stepped up military communication
in recent years to avoid accidental clashes. China's Global Times, an influential tabloid published by
the ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily newspaper,
praised Beijing for its calm response in the face of
"provocations", saying China would not target the United States
in the zone as long as it "does not go too far". But it warned Japan it could expect a robust response if it
continued to fly military aircraft in the zone. "If the trend continues, there will likely be frictions and
confrontations and even a collision in the air ... It is
therefore an urgent task for China to further train its air
force to make full preparation for potential conflicts," it
wrote in an editorial on Friday. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/pcy10hS8fJo/story01.htm