


By  Roberta Rampton  and  Sharon Begley WASHINGTON  Nov 30 (Reuters) - Americans are getting their
first look on Saturday at whether a five-week, round-the-clock
technology overhaul has made it easier to use the troubled
website that is the backbone of President Barack Obama's
landmark healthcare overhaul. The White House had pledged that HealthCare.gov, which has
been plagued by errors, outages, and slow speeds since its
disastrous Oct. 1 launch - would be working for most people this
weekend. Fixing the crisis, one of the biggest of Obama's presidency,
has enormous political stakes for the administration and its
Democratic allies who are heading into congressional elections
next year. The administration said on Saturday that 90 percent of
website users can now create an account on the system, which is
meant to help millions of people sign up for new health
insurance plans. But officials did not immediately provide information on
whether a flurry of recent hardware and software upgrades has
fixed other parts of the system to the point where a similar
percentage of users could complete their enrollment. Officials have been careful to say that the overhauled site
won't work for everyone and could still be overwhelmed by
traffic at times. "There will be moments, most likely in the middle of the
day, where demand will be greater than that capacity," Jeffrey
Zients, the Obama confidante tasked with leading the rescue
mission, told reporters earlier this week. His tech team created a new "queueing" feature that, in peak
periods, will suggest a better time to return to the site. The
administration has also directed users to visit it during
off-peak hours in the morning, evening and weekend. The HealthCare.gov website is the main way for people in 36
states to sign up for healthcare coverage under the 2010 Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. The Obama administration hopes eventually to enroll about 7
million uninsured and under-insured Americans in 2014, with many
of those consumers expected to qualify for subsidies. The healthcare overhaul is Obama's signature domestic
achievement, a program designed to extend coverage and reduce
healthcare costs. Opponents, including many Republicans, view it
as a massive government intervention into private medicine that
will inflate healthcare costs. To work, the program must enroll millions of young, healthy
consumers whose participation in the new insurance exchanges is
key to keeping costs in check. SUCCESS TOUGH TO MEASURE On Friday evening, ahead of the Obama administration's
self-imposed Saturday deadline to get the insurance shopping
website working for the "vast majority," the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced it was taking
down the website for an unusually long 11-hour maintenance
period. The website's account creation and log-in functions appeared
to work smoothly by 8 a.m. (1300 GMT) on Saturday, avoiding the
crash and error messages seen at its launch. But technology
specialists told Reuters that it would be difficult to
independently assess whether the site has met the goal of
functioning for most users most of the time, including handling
50,000 users at once. "There won't be anything you can tell from the outside,"
said Jonathan Wu, an information technology expert and
co-founder of the consumer financial website ValuePenguin. Wu said HealthCare.gov is working better but any remaining
problems lie much deeper within the site. Questions remain about the site's ability to direct payments
to private insurance companies when consumers enroll in their
plans. Portions of the system handling those functions are still
being built, officials say. "The real tests are: Were my premium payment and subsidy
accurately calculated? Am I getting the coverage I signed up
for? If my income situation changes, will the reconciliation
occur in a timely fashion?" said Rick Howard, a research
director at technology consultant Gartner. Zients was set to brief reporters on the site's progress on
Sunday. If the website does not work for the "vast majority" of
visitors this weekend as the administration has promised,
uninsured Americans could face problems getting coverage by an
initial Dec. 23 deadline. It also could create ripples that extend to the 2014
elections when control of the U.S. House of Representatives, now
dominated by Republicans, and the Senate, where Democrats have a
majority, will be up for grabs. Congressional Democrats facing re-election already have
shown signs of distancing themselves from the president and his
healthcare program. If the website does not show significant
improvement soon, some Democrats - particularly the dozen U.S.
senators from states led by conservative Republicans and who are
up for re-election next year - might call for extending
Obamacare's final March 31 enrollment deadline for 2014. That would delay the fines that are mandated by the law for
those who do not have insurance by that date, a scenario that
insurers say would destabilize the market. It also would fuel
Republicans' arguments that Obamacare is fatally flawed and
should be scrapped. HealthCare.gov's immediate success has also become vital to
Obama's credibility, which polls indicate has been tarnished by
the site's problems as well as his admission that he overreached
in promising that everyone who liked their healthcare plan would
be able to keep it under the new law. "It is a lot harder to reboot public trust than it is to
reboot software," said David Brailer, chief executive of the
Health Evolution Partners private equity firm and a health
official in former President George W. Bush's administration. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/fRPoq7v11eg/story01.htm