	 House prices in monthly fall, says Land Registry 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     House prices in England and Wales fell over the last month 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Your Home 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Where can I afford to live? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Help to Buy scheme 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 One city s house price surge 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Buying your first property  

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       House prices in England and Wales have fallen by 0.2% between October and November, according to the Land Registry. 
         It is the first drop in its monthly house price index for eight months. 
         However the Land Registry said the annual rate of house price inflation was still up, from 2.7% to 3.1%. 
         It follows similar figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) earlier this month, which also recorded a monthly drop in prices. 
         One reason that has already been suggested is that some home-buyers waited to see the details of the government s Help to Buy scheme before committing themselves to a purchase. 
         The second phase of the scheme, under which the government will guarantee mortgage repayments, was announced early in October. 
   Sales 
	       On a monthly basis, Wales now has the fastest rising prices. They rose by 2.4%, although from a low base. 
         Prices are falling fastest in north-east England, where the monthly drop was 3.1%. 
         The figures also show that the total number of house sales has risen steeply this year. 
         The latest statistics, from August, show that sales rose 15% over the year, to 74,767.  
         The Land Registry data includes houses bought for cash, as well as those purchased with mortgages. 
         It is also based on actual sale prices, whereas the ONS figures are based on mortgage completions. 
         As a result, it claims that its sample size is  larger than all the other statistical measures available .  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25136249#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa