


By Andrew Longstreth NEW YORK  Dec 13 (Reuters) - A U.S. federal judge on Friday
approved an estimated $5.7 billion class action settlement
between merchants and Visa Inc and MasterCard Inc 
over credit card fees despite objections from thousands of
retailers who complained it was inadequate. The settlement is believed to be the largest in a U.S.
antitrust class action. Merchants first sued Visa and MasterCard in 2005, accusing
the two companies of fixing the fees charged to merchants each
time their customers used their credit or debit cards. They were
accused also of preventing merchants from steering customers to
cheaper forms of payments. U.S. District Judge John Gleeson of Brooklyn, New York,
approved the settlement in a written order. The value of the settlement, reached last year, decreased
from roughly $7.2 billion to $5.7 billion after thousands of
merchants opted out of the deal, according to Craig Wildfang, an
attorney for the plaintiffs. The settlement provides for cash payments to merchants
nationwide and lets them begin charging customers an extra fee
when they use Visa or MasterCard credit cards. For Visa and MasterCard, Gleeson's decision could go a long
way to alleviate a major legal headache that has plagued them
for more than a decade. In 2003, two years before the current case started, Visa and
MasterCard settled a similar case with merchants over rules
governing the use of their cards. Approval of the current settlement has been opposed by many
of the largest players in the retail industry. Around 8,000 merchants, accounting for about 25 percent of
the transactional volume at issue in the case, opted out of the
settlement. Among those opting out were the largest retailers in the
United States, including Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Amazon.com
Inc, and Target Corp. Those businesses have complained about a broad litigation
release in the settlement. The release forces all merchants who
accepted Visa or MasterCard, and even those who will in the
future, to give up their right to sue the credit card companies
over rules at issue in this case or similar ones they may make
in the future. Those objectors also argued that the settlement offered
meaningless reforms that would not help them control the costs
of accepting credit cards. Under certain circumstances, the settlement allows merchants
to charge customers extra if they use Visa or MasterCard credit
cards. But critics of the deal point out that those
opportunities are extremely limited, and certain states prohibit
such surcharging. The critics also say that merchants are
unlikely to take advantage of surcharging for fear of upsetting
consumers or losing them to competitors that do not impose a
surcharge. Many retailers who opted out of the settlement have filed
their own lawsuits. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/wfUmGekcUzM/story01.htm