	 Qantas seeks foreign ownership rule change 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Qantas has taken various steps to restructure its loss- making international operations 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Aerospace and Defence 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 New era for Israel s El Al airline  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Airlines warned over pilot shortage 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Boeing leads Dubai order books race 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Dubai prepares for take-off 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Australian airline Qantas has backed a suggestion by Treasurer Joe Hockey that rules restricting foreign investment in the carrier should be changed.  
         Current rules limit total foreign holding of Qantas to 49%, with foreign airlines allowed to own just 35%. 
         Qantas has claimed the rules have hurt its growth, not least because its arch-rival Virgin has benefited from increased foreign investment.  
         Qantas has struggled recently amid rising competition and slowing demand. 
         What we have seen in Canberra is the politicians listening to our arguments, the politicians saying there is an unlevel playing field here,  said Alan Joyce, chief executive of Qantas. 
         Shares of Qantas rose as much as 5% in early trading in Sydney as investors hoped a change in rules may help the company. 
   Tough times 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
The process would be prolonged, during which time Virgin Australia would be free to continue its anti-competitive strategy aimed at crippling Qantas 
End Quote 
	 Alan Joyce 
	 Qantas 

		        The ownership rules were incorporated in  the Qantas Sale Act  ahead of the airline s privatisation in the 1990s.  
         However, since then the dynamics of the airline industry have changed significantly.  
         Even though Qantas continues to dominate the Australian market, it has struggled in the international market. Its international division has been making a loss for some time, holding back its overall profitability.  
         At the same time, profits at its domestic operations also fell in the financial year to 30 June 2013 - down 21% from a year ago to A$365m ($333m; £205m).  
         The airline is facing increased competition, not least from rival Virgin, which has attracted investment from foreign carriers Etihad, Singapore Airlines and Air New Zealand. 
   'Immediate action' 
	       For its part, Qantas has entered into a partnership with Emirates, with the two collaborating on pricing, sales and flight scheduling. The airline has said the partnership has started to help turn around its fortunes.   
         Mr Joyce called upon authorities to take  urgent, immediate action  to help sustain its growth further.  
         However, in a note sent to Qantas employees on Thursday, My Joyce said the government needed to do more than just change the Qantas Sale Act. 
         He said this was because  we don t think it is realistically achievable  to change the act in the current parliament.  
         And the process would be prolonged, during which time Virgin Australia would be free to continue its anti-competitive strategy aimed at crippling Qantas,  he added. 
         We simply do not have the time.   
         When contacted by the BBC, a spokesman for Qantas said the airline was discussing various options with the government to  level the playing field . 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25116529#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa