	 NatWest online services hit by cyber attack 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The attack came just a few days after a major IT failure at the RBS group 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Big Banking 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 EU fines banks over rate-rigging  

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 We ve kept businesses alive - RBS 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Cable hands RBS file to watchdog 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Parties row over Co-op  smears 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       A deliberate attempt to disrupt services at NatWest left some customers struggling to access online banking on Friday. 
         The surge of traffic - known as a distributed denial of service attack - was blamed by the RBS Group, which owns NatWest, for the access problems. 
         The disruption lasted for an hour from 11:30 GMT. 
         It came less than a week after a major computer failure left some customers unable to use cards and cash machines. 
   Details safe 
	       On Friday, a number of customers reported problems getting on to the bank s website, from which they normally access their accounts online. 
         The RBS Group - which includes RBS, NatWest and Ulster Bank - said that NatWest was worst affected by the  deliberate  disruption. 
         Due to a surge in internet traffic deliberately directed at the NatWest website, customers experienced difficulties accessing some of our customer websites today,  a spokeswoman for RBS said.  
         This deliberate surge of traffic is commonly known as a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. We have taken the appropriate action to restore the affected websites. At no time was there any risk to customers. We apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
         She stressed that the latest incident was not connected to Monday s IT failure and no customer information was compromised at any time. 
         The incident on Monday also affected cash machines and card payments and prompted an apology from the boss of the RBS group, Ross McEwan. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25262790#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa