	 Bank of England has no veto on Help to Buy, says governor 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The governor of the Bank of England has warned it could assess Help to Buy at any time 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Bank s Help to Buy role questioned 

		 


											




	


	





	 Thousands use Help to Buy loans 

		 


											




	


	





	 Help to Buy costs being unveiled 

		 


								 
	 
                       The governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, has confirmed that the Bank does not have a veto over the government s Help to Buy scheme. 
         Earlier this year two government ministers suggested the Bank could decide to stop the scheme, should it wish to do so. 
         But in a letter to the chairman of the Treasury Committee, Mr Carney said the Bank s role is purely advisory. 
         He said it would be for the government to decide whether to end the scheme. 
         But he also warned that the Bank could make recommendations about it at any time. 
         The Financial Policy Committee (FPC) is not constrained by the government s timetable for any such advice; it could make recommendations at any time,  he wrote. 
         Help to Buy has already proved controversial, with some economists saying it has boosted house prices too quickly. 
         The second part of the scheme, under which the government guarantees mortgage repayments, began in October. 
   'Risks' 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Help to Buy across the UK 
		 
	 
   

   

	 
	 
      England: Part one, the shared equity scheme, began in April 2013 
      Scotland: The shared equity scheme launched on 30 September 
      Wales: Welsh government has announced Help to Buy Cymru, but no launch date 
      Northern Ireland: Has existing co-ownership scheme 
      UK wide: Part two, the mortgage guarantee scheme began across the UK on 8 October 
   
	 
	        The chairman of The Treasury Committee, Andrew Tyrie, said the governor s letter was a step forward. 
         The Bank of England has no power of veto over Help to Buy,  he said. 
         Responsibility for it lies with the government,  he added. 
         The FPC has already been asked to assess the impact of Help to Buy each year. 
         Starting in September 2014, it will decide what effect the scheme has had on overall financial stability. 
         At the same time it will advise on whether the current price cap (£600,000), and the charges to lenders, are still suitable. 
         When the scheme ends in 2017, the FPC will also comment on any possible extension. 
         Later on Thursday, the FPC will publish its bi-annual report on financial stability, in which it will set out  the risks posed by recent and prospective developments  in the housing market.  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25124058#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa