         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:05PM
             | 18,933 views
     
		 Beyonce's Surprise Album Could Help Make 2014 Her Most Lucrative Year Yet 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Beyonce: Her new album could help her stand alone among music’s top earners. 
 
For Beyonc  fans who happened to be awake in the wee hours of Friday the 13th, Christmas came early this year–in the form of a surprise album by the superstar singer.  
The self-titled visual album was released exclusively via iTunes as a complete download for $15.99; individual songs will be available starting December 20th. The list of collaborators on Beyonc  features a who’s-who of the music business, including Pharrell Williams, Justin Timberlake, Drake, Timbaland, Frank Ocean, Michelle Williams, Kelly Rowland and, of course, Jay Z.  
With so many high-profile names attached to the project, it’s a small miracle that nothing leaked in advance of the launch, but Beyonc  runs a tight ship.  
“I’m never satisfied,” she told FORBES in a  2009 cover story , adding: “I’m sure sometimes it’s not easy working for me … I’ve never met anyone that works harder than me in my industry.”  
Indeed, she’s already played 97 shows on her Mrs. Carter World Tour this year–and, in combination with the buzz for her new album, that could catapult her to the most lucrative year of her already storied career. FORBES calculates earnings on the half-year, meaning that the scoring period for 2014 will run from June 2013 to June 2014.  
Beyonc  is already scheduled for 83 shows during that span, and that’s not counting additional bookings that could fill up April and May. She’s currently grossing over $2 million per city, according to Pollstar. Factoring in merchandise sales at her sold-out shows, that means she’s likely taking home somewhere around $1 million per night–if not more–before paying out agents, managers and Uncle Sam.  
Those sorts of touring numbers alone should be enough to equal Beyonc ’s best years to date, her twin peaks of $87 million in both 2009 and 2010. Factor in endorsements with Pepsi and H M, in addition to her other ventures and record sales, and she should easily double the $53 million she made this year. She’ll also challenge for music’s earnings crown, which went to Madonna at $125 million for 2013.  
As for the new album, it’s too early for sales numbers. But there’s at least one indicator that points to success: in 12 hours, Beyonc has already garnered half as many reviews on iTunes as Katy Perry’s PRISM and one-third as many as Lady Gaga’s ARTPOP. Both albums sold about a quarter of a million copies in their opening weeks.  
Furthermore, Beyonc ’s strategy of selling her album as a whole for the first week–rather than allowing fans to buy songs a la carte–could prove incredibly valuable. Before the digital revolution in music, that was the status quo, and it led to platinum opening weeks for scores of artists who’d now be lucky to sell a third of that over the life of an entire album.  
Her idea also hearkens back to the example of another top-earning superstar: Michael Jackson. In a video explaining why she decided to release a video for every song on her album, Beyonc  recalls watching the short film for “Thriller” with her family and being inspired.  
“I see music,” she  says . “It’s more than just what I hear.”  
She’ll be seeing a lot more cash, too.  
Want to learn more about the business of entertainment? Follow me on Twitter and see my Jay Z biography, Empire State of Mind . My next book, Michael Jackson, Inc , is due out next year.  

  The World's Highest-Paid Musicians 2013 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






	 



        	 
                	 
                    	24 images
						 
                	 
				 
			 
         
        	 Photos:  The 10 Highest-Paid Women In Music 2013
         


		 
			 
				 

                     Emily Canal 
                     Forbes Staff 
			 
		 
	 



	 



        	 
                	 
                    	27 images
						 
                	 
				 
			 
         
        	 Photos:  Hip-Hop Cash Kings 2013
         


		 
			 
				 

                     Zack O'Malley Greenburg 
                     Forbes Staff 
			 
		 
	 



	 



        	 
                	 
                    	15 images
						 
                	 
				 
			 
         
        	 Photos:  World's Highest Paid DJs 2013
         


		 
			 
				 

                     Ryan Mac 
                     Forbes Staff 
			 
		 
	 



	 



        	 
                	 
                    	13 images
						 
                	 
				 
			 
         
        	 Photos:  Top-Earning Dead Musicians 2013
         


		 
			 
				 

                     Emily Canal 
                     Forbes Staff 
			 
		 
	 

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/zackomalleygreenburg/2013/12/13/beyonces-surprise-album-could-help-make-2014-her-most-lucrative-year-yet/