         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 12:18PM
             | 194 views
     
		 What We Can Learn From Third-World Countries: Family-Centered Entrepreneurship 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    4 comments, 4 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Internet marketing whiz Alex Mandossian (image courtesy of AlexMandossian.com) 
 
I became acquainted this week with Internet wunderkind Alex Mandossian, the “Larry King of Google Hangouts.” Alex is a high-energy marketing wizard who’s shared the stage with figures ranging from Donald Trump to the Dalai Lama. He is also a faculty member of CEO Space, where we met during the December summit. We managed to break a glass in the middle of an impromptu object lesson. With any luck, we’ll be breaking much more glass together in the seasons to come. If you haven’t met Alex yet, be sure to catch him on video (and get ready for a caffeine-level buzz).  
Of everything I learned from Alex this week, this idea stood out: Why not start a family business? “The family that does business together stays together,” he says. “We home school. Why not extend the concept to the family’s livelihood and teach family entrepreneurship as well?” He had me thinking.  
This is entirely different than co-founding a company with your spouse, Alex says. The idea of spouses working together doesn’t work nearly as well as an arrangement that has the whole family involved, he maintains. “You can’t have just ‘C-level’ or (spouse-level) participants,” he says. “Spouses aren’t good at delegating to each other. But they’re really good at delegating to the kids. The kids can serve the management roles. And if kids are using electronics anyway—why not monetize the effort on behalf of the family?”  
A recent Forbes post  has noted that family businesses currently produce more than 50% of the US Gross National Product (GNP). And from Berkshire Hathaway to Walmart to the corner stores, approximately 90% of U.S. businesses are family owned or controlled. Why not start that education at the home and prepare children to handle these possibilities well?  
“Other countries understand this concept better than the U.S.,” Alex says. “Koreans have their drycleaning businesses. In India you have the ‘patels’, or innkeepers. The Chinese have foot massage outlets, or restaurants. Everybody in the family is involved.”  
“There’s very little division remaining between our personal and professional lives. Why not go a step further and make it Dad’s and Mom’s responsibility to launch the family business from home? I suggest we learn to capitalize on what’s happening and make it legal to talk about your work at the family table.”  
The idea would make a great solution for the thousands of individuals who are structurally unemployed, he observes. Families would bond more closely together. Children would learn the skills to take responsibility for their own financial futures. “Instead of paying your child an allowance, why not give them a paycheck?” Alex says. Idea generation could happen at the dinner table, while the family breaks bread. As the venture expands, families could outsource work to other families who fear the risk of starting a business of their own.  

  
   The best business education begins in the home, Alex Mandossian maintains 
 
Perhaps the idea is not as radical as it sounds. Both  Harvard  and  Babson  offer fields of study that are specifically oriented to family entrepreneurs.  
Children learn responsibility in a family business, Alex continues. Sick pay isn’t an option—if one family member can’t make it, another member of the family takes over. As to family politics—”Well, you have corporate politics to deal with in a traditional company—why should a family business be different?”  
The Forbes article on  The Facts of Family Business  agrees: “…the company’s hierarchy typically reflects the family’s pecking order regardless of what the organization chart says. Each family member plays the same role inside their company. For example, the bully brother is the same bully in the business forcing everyone to do it his way. Whoever is seen as the head of the household wants to tell everyone else what to do. The peacemaker in the family tries to smooth things over when tempers explode. The mother who controls the budget at home now wants to approve how every dollar is spent at the business.”  
However, not every experience in a family owned business is ideal. Alex recalls a situation in his own home business when destiny caused his varied roles to collide. As he sat in his home to begin a teleconference, his neighbor waved through the window. Easily solved—he closed the blinds.  Then the phone registered call waiting. His mom was trying to call. It could wait. There were 510 people assembled on a teleconference and the business role prevailed. Then he heard a shriek. “My daughter, then 2  , fell down the stairs and landed on the hardest part of her body—her head.”  
Suddenly the role of father prevailed. He dropped the phone, left the receiver hanging and ran to rescue his child, favoring all 510 participants with front row seats to the parental crisis at hand. But an interesting thing happened, Alex recalls. Minutes later, when he returned to the telephone, 40 additional people had joined. “They were hearing the whole thing—couldn’t believe what was happening—and they started alerting their friends. Now there were 550 people online.”  
With the emergency settled, he regained his composure and taught the group for an additional hour.  Alex notes a Mennonite family he’s acquainted with who have 15 children. All are in business—not the same business, but in affiliated lines of work and they collaborate in an entrepreneurial “ecosystem” within the walls of the home. One is a web developer. Another designs joint ventures. Still another is a professional speaker. Admittedly, the concept of home and family business can be taken too far. “It can threaten the family’s safety if there are too many items of value stored at the home,” he acknowledges, and he also notes that children can become vulnerable if strangers walk unannounced through the family door.  
Still, he’s increasingly becoming a proponent. He is a principle in his regional Marin County, Calif. Home Schooling association, and the group is launching an entrepreneurship division of the home schooling curriculum they offer through the organization’s website at  www.Homeschool.com . “The training doesn’t have to happen in just one home,” he notes. “With Google Hangouts, distance learning is possible. Families don’t have to limit their collaboration to the local neighborhood. They can collaborate together from allover the world.”  
Then he mentions a father who plans to give his two children, when they reach 18, $250,000 apiece to be used for their choice of college or working capital for a business and strongly hopes they choose business. After a little prodding, he admits that the father is him. Could your family (grown or not) launch a family business? What are your own thoughts on this trend? Perhaps the “Duck Dynasty” style of family and life is not so far off base after all. For anyone who would like to meet Alex Mandossian and talk to him further you can find him on Google+ at most any time, or you can reach him at  www.alexmandossian.com .  

  The Top 6 Benefits of Starting a Home-Based Business 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Facts Of Family Business
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Aileron 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    		     SAP Voice:  
99 Amazing Facts On The Future Of Business


             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Michael Brenner 
	                     @SAP 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Key Steps To Building Your First Small Business Website
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Michel Theriault 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Five Tips For Marketers In 2014
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Kimberly Whitler 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/cherylsnappconner/2013/12/13/what-we-can-learn-from-3rd-world-countries-family-centered-entrepreneurship/