         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/12/2013 @ 6:34PM
             | 1,054 views
     
		 The Six Gaping Loopholes In The Controversial Volcker Rule 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    4 comments, 4 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Don’t cry for me Goldman Sachs,$GS and JP Morgan,  Chase   Chase  $JPM. There are so many bloody loopholes in the supposedly tough as nails Volcker Rule limiting profitable trading with your own money that it’s totally absurd to fear the future. That’s because of the following exceptions to the proposed prohibition against proprietary trading by banking entities.  
Here are the LOOPHOLES IN THE VOLCKER RULE THAT BENEFIT THE INVESTMENT BANKS:  
1. Banks will be permitted to engage in the proprietary trading in U.S. government, agency, state and municipal obligations, and “in more limited circumstances” proprietary trading in the obligations of foreign sovereign nations and their political subdivisions. And here’s the beauty of this exception; there are more trillions of these securities to trade than there are common stocks outstanding. How do you suppose Salomon Bros. became such a powerhouse bond firm in the old days?  
2. Pay attention now to this loophole. US banks like Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan Chase,  Citigroup   Citigroup ,  Morgan Stanley   Morgan Stanley  and their lot will be allowed to do proprietary trading of equities as long as they are risks taken in their “foreign banking entities.” This exemption (a victory for all those JPM lobbyists) allows JPM, GS, C, MS and the rest to compete fully abroad with their foreign brethren… competitors, like DeutscheBank, HSBC,  Barclays   Barclays ,Credit Suisse, the Dutch and French, Japanese and Chinese banks. All the Americans have to do is organize the trading decisions inside their British, German and French operations as well as hold the securities there as well. I call this the number one gaping hole in the Volcker rule and most likely someday the locus of the next financial meltdown; in highly leveraged  Europe .  
3. The investment bank underwriting operations in bond and stock IPOs and secondary offerings garnered the following loophole exception; their trading desk inventories must not “exceed… the reasonably expected near-term demands of customers.” That seems to leave open a big enough hole to drive a truck through. Who will decide that underwriting position? How will it possibly be transparent to the regulators? And use the Croesus solution; divide the inventory between restrictive America and free as a lark Europe. Done!  
4. I challenge you to quantify the amount of “risk-mitigating hedging” the banks will be allowed to do. I laughed out loud about the requirement of the bank to perform a so-called “correlation analysis” as part of the monitoring and recalibration of these hedged trades. I can see the nation will need a supply of correlation analysts to evaluate the “heightened compliance risks” involved in the art of hedging. Do you think the regulators will be able to stay on top of the hedging volume on a real time basis? I’d bet there isn’t a chance. Don’t cry for me Gary Gensler.  
5. The going abroad exemption is a work of genius. The Volcker Rule’s summary of an exempt transaction lets it occur with the foreign operations of a U.S. entity, in a cleared transaction with an unaffiliated market intermediary acting as principal or in cleared transactions through an unaffiliated market intermediary acting as agent, “conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility.” I adore the concept of a transaction “conducted anonymously” as a kind of spin-off from a special CIA undercover piece of mischief. Will the public in any way, shape or form know what and how much and where all this anonymous conduct will take place? Please let me know if you are worried about the future of Goldman Sachs.  
6. Some clarifying exclusions to the Volcker rule still to be finalized would include “trading solely as an agent, broker, or custodian, through a deferred compensation or similar plans, to satisfy a debt previously contracted; under certain repurchase and securities lending agreements; for liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity plan” etc. etc.  
And the coup de grace: ” The final rules would require the banking entities to maintain documentation so that the agencies can monitor their activities for instances of evasion.” Ha! 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/robertlenzner/2013/12/12/the-six-gaping-loopholes-exemptions-to-the-controversial-volcker-rule/