	 Npower to cut 1,400 jobs in the UK 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Npower owner RWE to cut 6,750 jobs 

		 


											




	


	





	 RWE to close or idle power plants 

		 


											




	


	





	 Unions voice fears over Npower jobs 

		 


								 
	 
                       Energy giant Npower is to cut 1,400 jobs as part of a major restructuring of its UK operations.  
         There are to be closures at a number of the company s sites in the UK, while some back-office operations will be outsourced to India. 
         The BBC has learned that a further 570 jobs will be outsourced within the UK. 
         Npower, one of the UK s  big six  gas and electricity suppliers, currently employs 9,600 people in the UK.  
         Npower announced a major overhaul of its UK operations in August. It is expected that Npower will give details of the job losses on Thursday morning.  
   Cuts to come  
	       In a statement, Npower said:  As we announced a couple of months ago, Npower has been undertaking a major review of sites, operations and people across the UK.  
         We ve been doing this to improve our customer service and keep our costs down, at a time of external pressures on customers  bills. 
         In response to the news, Colin Smith, the GMB union s northern region senior organiser, said:  GMB will vigorously campaign against the offshoring of jobs to India because it has absolutely nothing to do with customer service and everything to do with cost.   
         GMB added that Thursday s announcement will include details of site closures, but it understands that these will be Peterlee in Durham, Thornaby in North Yorkshire, and Stoke-on-Trent in Staffordshire. 
         Npower s parent company, German power giant RWE, announced plans earlier this month to cut 6,750 jobs across Europe and reduce costs by 1bn euros (£840m). 
         The company announced the cuts would be carried out between 2014 and 2016, in a bid to tackle low wholesale prices for energy and an increase in renewable capacity. 
   Profits fall 
	       Also earlier this month, RWE said that Npower had seen a 3% fall in operating profits to £176m (206m euros) in the first half of 2013. 
         RWE pointed to new government regulations for simplified energy tariffs, as well as to energy-saving measures in domestic homes for dented profits.  
         Last week, Npower said it would sell some subsidiaries to Telecom Plus, which trades as Utility Warehouse, for £218m. 
         Telecom Plus will officially take over contracts to supply gas and electricity to 770,000 accounts as part of the deal. 
   
                         Are you affected by the issues in this story? Please send us your comments using the form below. 
  

	
	
    
       
    
     
     
     
     
       
         (Required)   Name 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your E-mail address 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Town   Country 
         
         
       
       
         (Required)   Your telephone number 
         
         
       
     
     
       
         (Required)    Comments 
         
         
       
     
	     
       If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. 
       Terms and conditions 
       Send 
       Clear 
     
   


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25127453#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa