	 UK house prices continue to rise rapidly, says Halifax 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     House prices have risen rapidly in recent months as demand has grown 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Your Home 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Where can I afford to live? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Help to Buy scheme 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 One city s house price surge 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Buying your first property  

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       House prices rose by 1.1% in November compared with the previous month and up 7.7% annually, the Halifax has said. 
         The lender, now part of Lloyds Banking Group, said strong demand for homes combined with low levels of property on the market had pushed up prices. 
         It said that the average home in the UK was now valued at £174,910. 
         However, the Halifax said that the rate of house price growth would be  constrained  by squeezed household finances.  
         We are also seeing signs of a revival in housebuilding, which should help bring supply and demand into better balance and curb upward pressure on prices over the medium and longer terms,  said Martin Ellis, chief economist at the Halifax. 
   Lending refocus 
	       The month-on-month rise was the 10th successive monthly increase in prices, according to the Halifax s measure.  
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 BBC housing calculator  
		 
	 
   

   

	 
	 
      Lets you see where you can afford to live - and if it would it be cheaper to rent or buy 
      Enter how many bedrooms, which end of the market and how much you want to pay each month 
      As you move the payment slider, parts of the UK light up to show you where you can afford 
      Based on pricing and rental data from residential property analysts Hometrack 
   
	 
		 
			 BBC housing calculator 
		 
	        The three-month on three-month comparison, which represents a more accurate picture of the market as it excludes short-term fluctuations, showed that prices rose by 2.1% in the three months to the end of November compared with the previous quarter. 
         However, the Halifax said that the UK market had not returned to the levels seen during the housing boom. The average price was still 12% below the August 2007 peak, it said.  
         In an attempt to ensure that relatively cheap mortgages do not fuel an  overheated  market, the Bank of England is refocusing the Funding for Lending scheme (FLS) on business, not mortgage borrowers. 
         Under the scheme, banks and building societies were allowed to borrow money cheaply from the Bank of England, as long as they then loan that money on. 
         At the end of November, the Bank s governor Mark Carney, said that supporting mortgage lending was  no longer necessary . 
         An overheated housing market would be a risk to the economy, he said, adding that prices were rising in many regions. 
         The figures from the Halifax are similar to data from the Nationwide Building Society, which recently reported a 6.5% annual house price rise in November. 
         Both lenders base the figures on their own mortgage data. 
         However, the year-on-year comparison is calculated slightly differently by the two lenders. The Halifax compares the previous three months with the same three months a year earlier to give a smoother comparison, rather than a direct comparison of the equivalent months as calculated by the Nationwide.  
  











The interactive content on this page requires JavaScript 

UK house prices 

	 Year on year % change 



	 Reset 

	 


	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25255393#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa