		 Homely But Lovable Mini Brings Back Homely But Lovable Spike the Bulldog 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Mini mascot Spike the English Bulldog; Mini photo 
 
Mini  brings back Spike the English Bulldog to re-introduce the brand and the new generation of the Mini hardtop.  
Another bulldog helped re-introduce the British brand to the United States after Germany’s  BMW  revived the brand in 2002. To the tagline, “Let’s Get Acquainted,” the earlier Spike the Bulldog looked the Mini all over and finally sniffed the tailpipe, the classic canine get-to-know-you gesture.  
Another Spike made a recent appearance in the  Mini Not Normal  ad campaign, emphasizing the brand’s pride in quirkiness.  
Sales of the  redesigned Mini hardtop  are expected to start around March 2014. It’s the first Mini to share a platform under the skin with BMW. Designing multiple cars off what the auto industry calls the same “architecture” saves time and money for development, and sharing parts yields bigger quantity discounts for both brands.  
U.S. pricing will be announced closer to the U.S. launch. In  Europe , pricing starts at 19,700 Euros for the Mini Cooper. Minus the Value Added Tax and translating that into dollars, that’s the equivalent of about $21,700.  
From the outside, the new Mini looks a lot like the model it replaces. It’s slightly bigger in every dimension, but the exterior styling is definitely evolutionary rather than revolutionary. One big change is optional LED headlights, which are highly distinctive.  
On the inside, the new model has all-new electronics, including an all-new “center stack” also known as the center console, and a new instrument panel in front of the driver.  
In previous Minis, the tachometer was in front of the driver and a round, oversized speedometer was on the car’s centerline. In the new Mini hardtop the speedometer is in front of the driver like other cars. A multifunction screen replaces the round centerline speedometer.  
In another nod to convention, the new car has the window switches on the doors like other cars, instead of between the seats like older Minis.  
There are still plenty of quirks, though, including the brand’s first  three-cylinder engine  as the base engine.  
Naturally, all these changes meet with Spike the Bulldog’s toothy approval in the new Mini ad campaign. In commercials, Spike has a keener eye than a lot of humans because he can tell right away from the outside it’s a new and unfamiliar model. Maybe it smells different, too. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
http://www.forbes.com/sites/jimhenry/2013/11/30/homely-but-lovable-mini-brings-back-homely-but-lovable-spike-the-bulldog/