		 Top 5 Most Likely Villain Team-Ups For The 'Man of Steel' Sequel 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Now that  we have the Batffleck appearing  in  Warner Bros.’  follow-up to  Man of Steel , who will be the movie’s big-bad? Since Superman and Batman are going to team up on the screen, I thought I’d take a look at which are potential villain teams might dare challenge the super-friends (Well, maybe “friends” is too strong of a strong word, actually…), since it’s pretty certain we’re going to see not one but  two  villains in the movie. So, I’ve compiled the top five most likely villain teams for the super-sequel! Be warned, dear readers, there are a few possible spoilers ahead regarding certain things about the film. And I suspect ONE of these combos is going to be correct…  
2015 is shaping up as one of the biggest years for cinema in recent memory — not only the Batman-Superman film, but also  The Avengers: Age of Ultron ,  Star Wars: Episode VII ,  Ant-Man ,  Jurassic World ,  The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2 ,  Minions (moved to 2015 from 2014), the  Fantastic Four  reboot, the new  James Bond  film, the  Terminator  reboot,  Mission: Impossible 5 ,  Fifty Shades of Grey ,  Kung Fu Panda 3 ,  Ted 2 , Pixar’s  Inside Out ,  Mad Max: Fury Road , and  Tomorrowland , just to name some of the highest profile entries.  
Some of those flicks might end up underwhelming, but most will do good to great business. So the Batman-Superman film is going to need to need added bang for its buck in that crowded field. Make no mistake, it will be one of 2015′s top-grossing films unless it’s just really awful and suffers terrible advance buzz, bad reviews, and lousy word of mouth. That’s a really unlikely scenario, though, and with Batman coming along for the ride, the financial outlook is highly positive. But Warner is going to want to gain every advantage possible, and that’s going to mean stacking the deck as much in the film’s favor as possible. Which means, of course, a villain who adds to the must-see nature of  Batman vs. Superman .  
Let’s take a moment first to look at what we know for sure, and what we strongly suspect, so we are clear about what sort of film we’re talking about when we try and figure out who will show up as a main protagonist. Superman just spent the previous film helping repel an invasion of Earth by soldiers from his home world. Earth found out he’s been here among us, hiding and not revealing himself, for a long time. The government didn’t trust him, and in fact feared him. And while he was helping Earth resist the alien invasion, the resulting destruction surely has made more than a few people hostile or at least hesitant about trusting him.  
Meanwhile, we know Batman will show up — in the form of  Ben Affleck , which  is a good thing and the complaints are just wrong  — and that he’ll be a grizzled veteran crime-fighter, possibly semi-retired and using drones to patrol Gotham City. The depiction mixes inspiration from the famous comics  The Dark Knight Returns  and  Kingdom Come . He will likely be estranged from Dick Grayson, aka the first Robin who is presumably now on his own as Nightwing. He’ll have a girlfriend, possibly someone fans will be familiar with from the comics. He will have a regular Batman uniform that’s somewhat more similar to the traditional comic book costume, but he’ll don an armored battle suit for his big battle against Superman (and it’ll be a real fight, not a short little disagreement that’s quickly and nicely resolved).  
Wonder Woman will likely appear , albeit probably in a smaller supporting role, and might only appear in her “civilian” identity as Diana. Little is known for sure about what role she’ll play — that probably depends on how early in the story she’s introduced, and what sort of threat the main villain poses. But be it a cameo, a few different scenes, or a full-blown unexpected supporting hero role, she’s all but assured to make an appearance, unless last-minute edits push her debut to the follow-up sequel for some reason.  
Lastly, Lex Luthor will show up. After the LexCorp “Easter Eggs” in  Man of Steel , it already seemed inevitable that his bald head full of evil genius will make an appearance in the next movie. Screenwriter  David Goyer   told fan site Bleeding Cool News  that his Luthor will be like Bill Gates.  During a Yahoo! fan event  director  Zack Snyder  told filmmaker and comic book writer  Kevin Smith  that Luthor will enjoy annoying Superman by calling him “the alien” (seemingly to drive home a subtly “xenophobic” point that Superman is not from around here). So, they’ve already got his characterization done.  
How much of a role he truly plays, we’ll have to see, but Luthor is inevitably fills one of the two slots in our villain team up, and he will be paired with a villain who serves as the more direct threat worthy of Superman’s power level.  
Now, with all of that in mind, let’s get down to it — here are the five most likely villain team-ups for the Batman vs. Superman movie, in random order (meaning not in order of likelihood or preference)…  
1. Lex Luthor and Metallo — Lex is the blue boy scout’s arch nemesis, and his corporate billions make him a potential rival to a certain Wayne Enterprises, so there’s plenty of room for Luthor to hatch a plan catching the attention of both superheroes, and a military project involving secret alien technology is the most obvious choice. We saw a lot of discarded Kryptonian battle armor and weapons tech in  Man of Steel , and with the military unease about Superman, it’s not hard to imagine a secret defense initiative at LexCorp creating the super-cyborg Metallo. It would also be a good way to introduce Kryptonite into the series. With Superman limited by the Kryptonite obstacle, Batman’s assistance would definitely be appreciated. This is probably the most obvious potential villain team-up, and one that most fans likely have high on their list of expected possible villains, so the fact it makes so much sense in the chronology at once is a point in its favor but also could mean it’s too obvious and thus less likely after all, especially since it lacks the “oomph” needed from a villain pairing to live up to the story’s superhero teaming.  
2. Lex Luthor and Bizarro — Superman’s blood has the genetic code for other Kryptonians, and a big ship with a birthing matrix crashed in Metropolis. Lex Luthor’s anti-Superman projects could get a big shot in the arm from Superman’s blood-borne potential, so obtaining a blood sample from a fragment of debris in Smallville would allow a new origin for Bizarro. There’s a great Matt Wagner comic called  Trinity  in which Batman says simply, “I’ve read your file,” after laying the whammy on Bizarro, showing how a mortal hero can be a good ally against a super-threat. Superman fighting “himself” is an interesting representation of the public debate, too. And Lex Luthor could test his latest invention by unleashing Bizarro against Batman, thus giving the Dark Knight a mistaken impression that the real Superman attacked him, setting up the epic battle between the heroes. This is a particular strong team-up possibility, since it doesn’t rely on another alien invasion and it provides a villain truly capable of going toe-to-toe with Superman, while letting Luthor play a direct role in the villain’s creation. The one downside is,  Man of Steel  already had Superman fighting a powerful alternate self, so to speak, complete with dark alternate version of the super-uniform and even the kind of weird flat hairdo. Would it feel too “been there, done that?”  
3. Lex Luthor and Doomsday– Superman just learned his “don’t kill” lesson in the fight with Zod, so fighting an indestructible monster bent on killing him would put the hero in a pickle. Batman could fight Superman early in the film, but then regret their conflict when he sees Doomsday laying waste to everything. Batman could help Superman defeat Doomsday, with Superman dying as a lead-in to a cliffhanger or a suprise arrival of Wonder Woman to revive him somehow. Luthor could have created Doomsday as a super-weapon to protect the world from Superman, but things get out of control, or Luthor intentionally lets things get out of control and Doomsday is unleashed “accidentally on purpose.” On the other hand, Luthor could be a more subtle protagonist at this point, speaking out publicly against Superman but not directly involved in any plot against the Man of Steel this time around. Doomsday might just be an unrelated threat that arrives on Earth on his own. Batman’s appearance already guarantees the film is headed for a higher level of performance than  Man of Steel , and including a Death of Superman hint via the inclusion of Doomsday would be a huge financial bump for the movie. On the other hand, after  Man of Steel  was criticized for having too much focus on destruction in a prolonged fight sequence, they might not want to revisit that sort of approach again so soon.  
4. Lex Luthor and the Joker — A big role of the bat-villain dice! Heath Ledger’s iconic performance is a hard act to follow, but there’s an argument for a bold move to say, “We’re this confident and this fearless.” All that’s required is great casting (Cate Blanchett or Joaquin Phoenix!) and a great story. If a supervillain team-up is in the works, then a Luthor-Joker pairing would be the ultimate choice. What if Luthor learns Batman has some Kryptonite and persuades the Joker to steal it for him? What if the villains pursue separate plans that just eventually cross paths? Lots of options. Playing this card (ouch, sorry) could be the extra oomph the film needs to top $1 billion at the box office, too. So the fact it balances the superhero team and that it would be one of the biggest villain draws possible for the movie is a one-two punch in this villain team-up’s favor. On the other hand, if the Joker makes an appearance at all, it’s more likely a cameo with him in Arkham, since I’d expect Affleck (whom I feel sure will direct the solo Batman films to come) will want to try his own hand at reinventing Batman’s arch nemesis for the big screen. But the studio might feel that with the existing controversy over Affleck’s donning the cowl, having a new actor take on the Joker so soon after  Heath Ledger  might risk alienating fans too much.  
5. Lex Luthor and Brainiac — As already noted, Luthor works as an enemy for both Superman and Batman, which simplifies bringing them together. If Batman distrusts super-aliens and devises a way to take Superman down, Luthor could steal the plan and use it. This is inspired by the Justice League comic “Tower of Bable,” which was the inspiration for the defunct “Justice League: Mortal” movie project a few years back. Maybe Luthor steals Batman’s plans to get rid of Superman, paving the way for Brainiac to enter the story. Fans have eagerly awaited seeing Earth invaded by the collector of worlds, a situation where Superman could definitely use help from Batman and, if she plays a bigger role than expected, Wonder Woman. With Superman fighting Brainiac himself, Batman could supply the technical skill and advanced R D to combat Brainiac’s forces and confront Luthor’s Earth-based threats. Brainiac is a fan-favorite and the most oft-mentioned villain fans want to see in a Superman movie, so that’s a point in his favor; on the other hand, this being a team-up film instead of a pure Superman sequel, it could be that they’ll save Brainiac for a future solo Superman sequel, especially since they just did the alien invasion storyline for  Man of Steel  and might prefer something different this time around. Brainiac also feels more suited to a bigger film involving multiple heroes, such as a Trinity of Justice League movie.  
And there you have it, dear readers, the five most likely villain team-ups for the upcoming superhero sequel to Man of Steel! Which one do you think is most likely, and which would you most want to see? Sound off in the comments below!  
Follow me on  Twitter , on  Google+ ,  and on  Quora .  Read my  blog . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
http://www.forbes.com/sites/markhughes/2013/11/30/top-5-most-likely-villain-team-ups-for-the-man-of-steel-sequel/