         

         


         
             Lists 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 2:39PM
             | 528 views
     
		 Swiss Chemical Conglomerate Mints Three Billionaire Sisters 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Magdalena Martullo-Blocher, CEO of EMS-Chemie, has an estimated net worth of $2.7 billion. 
 
Magdalena Martullo-Blocher took the reins of EMS-Chemie, the gigantic Swiss polymer and chemical manufacturer, from her father Christoph Blocher in 2004, as he departed the company after 30 years to serve on the Federal Council — the executive seven-member body that runs the Swiss government. Upon starting his political career, he not only made his eldest daughter CEO, he also divested himself of EMS-Chemie stock, dividing an equal portion of his 60% holding among his four children. Since then the company’s value has ballooned, its stock rising more than 200% from Swiss Franc CHF97 to CHF300 — a market value of US$7.9 billion. All have become very wealthy, but Magdalena and her two sisters, who have held on to company stock, have become billionaires.  
EMS-Chemie was founded by Dr. Werner Oswald in Zurich in the late 1930s as a manufacturer of ethyl alcohol from wood. By the time Blocher, currently vice president of the conservative Swiss People’s Party, started  working for EMS-Chemie as a student in its legal department in 1969, it had expanded production into materials for paints, plastics, clothing and auto parts. Three years later, Blocher was CEO of the company, and by 1983 he purchased a majority of EMS-Chemie from the Oswald family. Many acquisitions and expansions later, the global conglomerate generates revenues of $1.9 billion.  
EMS-Chemie declined to comment.  
When Blocher, 73, left the company for his political career in 2003, Martullo-Blocher became CEO. Before joining the EMS-Chemie board of directors in 2001, Martullo-Blocher held management positions with  Johnson   Johnson   Johnson   Johnson  and Swiss beverage maker Rivella. With youngest sibling Rahel, she co-owns the family’s Emesta Holding company, which holds a 60% stake in EMS-Chemie worth $4.8 billion. Company annual reports list Martullo-Blocher, 44, as the 49.9% owner of Emesta, making her stake worth at least $2.4 billion. Accrued dividends push her net worth over $2.5 billion. Rahel isn’t explicitly mentioned in recent annual reports, but past filings and company statements reveal that the four children were given equal shares of Emesta upon their father’s retirement from the company. Brother Markus sold his stake to his sisters in 2005 and sister Miriam sold the majority of hers in 2007, making Magdalena and Rahel, 37, controlling owners of the company. With ownership of the other remaining 50.1% of Emesta, Rahel — like Magdalena — gives her a net worth over $2.5 billion.  
Miriam Blocher, at age 38 the second-youngest, still holds an 8.9% stake in the company worth about $700 million. She sold the majority of her shares in 2007 after leaving the company to run L ckerli-Huus, a Swiss confectionary and baked goods company. Proceeds from the stock sale and company dividends she has accrued put her net worth above $1 billion.  
Though he sold first among the siblings, Dr. Markus Blocher, the second-eldest at age 42, has still amassed a sizable fortune. When he sold his stake in EMS-Chemie to his sisters in early 2005, he netted an estimated $300 million. The former  McKinsey   Company   McKinsey   Company  consultant left to run Dottikon, the  fine chemicals and engineering division of EMS-Chemie that it spun off that year. As CEO and executive chairman, he owns 68% of Dottikon, a stake worth $220 million, giving him an estimated net worth in excess of $500 million. Miriam owns a 5% stake in Dottikon worth about $17 million.  
With reporting from Zainab Amin . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Biotech Entrepreneur's Fortune Nearly Doubles After Strong Clinical Trials For Cancer Treatment
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Alex Morrell 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    IPO Surge Makes Zulily Founder a Billionaire
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Alex Morrell 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexmorrell/2013/12/13/swiss-chemical-conglomerate-mints-three-billionaire-sisters/