		 Vacation Deprivation: Americans Have Twice As Many Unused Days Off As Last Year, New Survey Finds 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
The average American was given 14 days of vacation during the past year, yet took only 10, leaving four days unused, twice as many as last year, according to a new survey by  Expedia.com , an online travel company that announced the results of the  2013 Vacation Deprivation survey  earlier this month.  
Collectively, Americans failed to take an estimated 577,212,000 available days of vacation this year.  
The study’s release was timed to remind workers that they have limited opportunity to take their remaining 2013 vacation days or risk losing them.  
“No one retires wishing they’d spent more time at their desk,” John Morrey, vice president and general manager of  Expedia   Expedia .com said in a statement. “There are countless reasons that vacation days go unused – failure to plan, worry, forgetfulness, you name it. But rested employees are more productive employees, so taking regular vacations may well help the company more than failing to do so.”  
The survey, which found that American workers often treat vacations as a luxury rather than a right, was conducted online by  Harris Interactive   Harris Interactive  from August 20 to September 12. It looked at how many vacation days were given and used, and at cultural differences among more than 8,500 employed adults across 24 countries and five continents.  
Expedia initially commissioned the annual survey in 2000 to examine vacation habits of Americans. In 2005, it began comparing American behavior with that of other countries, including which country’s residents checked work email and voicemail messages most often while vacationing or were able to check out completely.  
“Stark differences” in attitudes towards work-life balance between countries were reported in the current survey, the company said.  
Highlights from the survey:  
  The French take the most vacation, typically using all 30 days available to them; yet 90% said they felt “vacation-deprived.” Europeans overall felt the most vacation deprived, despite the fact that they were afforded more vacation time than any other region. (Only 17% of Norwegians, however, described feeling vacation-deprived.)  
 Asian and American attitudes towards vacation are similar. While the Japanese are given a relatively robust 18 vacation days (the global average is 20), they only take 7. Japan joins South Korea as the most vacation-deprived nations in the study; South Koreans also take 7 of a possible 10 days.  
 Many vacationers bring work with them; approximately two thirds (67%) of vacationing Americans remain tethered to the office; only 43% of Germans and 46% of the British remain tightly connected to work while on break.  
 Worldwide, 65% of people felt that their bosses were supportive of vacation. Three out of four (76%) American bosses were perceived by their employees to be supportive; Norway had the highest percentage of supportive bosses reported (88%) followed by Sweden (80%), and New Zealand (76%).  
Reasons for not using vacation days:  
 Stockpiling: the most commonly cited reason —among 25 % of workers – for not using days unused was a desire to accumulate vacation days for future trips;  
 Complex scheduling: 22% reported difficultly coordinating a time that worked for themselves and other travel companions;  
 Financial opportunism: 18% report that they can be paid for unused vacation days, a practice common in India (37%), Brazil (30%) and Spain (27%); 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
http://www.forbes.com/sites/tanyamohn/2013/11/30/vacation-deprivation-americans-have-twice-as-many-unused-days-off-as-last-year-new-survey-finds/