         

         


         
             Logistics  &  Transportation 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 2:33PM
             | 43 views
     
		 What Happened to Collaboration? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
   
Yesterday, when I walked through the shopping square, I heard caroling and the ringing of bells. My feet crunched through the snow. The holiday spirit was in the air. In the spirit of holiday giving, I want to raise the question,  “What has happened to supply chain collaboration?”   Based on my research, I think that we are going backwards, not forwards.  
Let me share my rationale. Nine out of ten companies are stuck. They are not able to drive improvements year-over-year on operating margin and inventory turns. Instead, we find most companies going backwards on margin. Companies are extending terms and shifting inventory. They are pushing cost and waste backwards in the supply chain on trading partners that have a higher cost of capital. As a result, companies are seeing short-term transactional benefits, but eroding long-term margins and competitive positions.  
I was talking to a client yesterday about the evolution of technologies for the extended supply chain. She stated, “As business leaders,  we are having the same conversation over and over again. I left supply chain and went to  Europe  for four years, and thought it would change. But, guess what? It is the same conversation. We are not making progress.”  My sentiment is the same. In the spirit of the holiday season, I want to hold up a mirror. We are talking about collaboration, but we are going backwards.  
Why?    
The ends of the supply chain are weak. Supply chain leaders are in the middle. Yet, we are asking the transactional buyers and sellers of goods and services to plot the path forward for value chains. Many well-intended financial policies are taking us in the wrong direction. The vision is too limited.  
The path forward will not come from sales talking to procurement buyers. Instead, it needs to be driven by someone who can orchestrate and design end-to-end, from the customer back, based on channel consumption. Only 1% of companies have someone in this role. Only 1/3 of companies have a supply chain center of excellence and 50% of these companies feel that it is successful. The reason is that supply chain has now been defined as another function. As such, it becomes part of the problem, not part of the solution.  
Ring the Bells. Change the Picture.  
I am actively studying the progress of Fortune 500 performance at the intersection of operating margin and inventory turns. I am translating the design of collaborative programs into corporate performance. No, I am not talking about singing the  Kumbayah  song and pushing a “ feel good program” ; instead, I am speaking about the design of a program with trading partners that drives, and improves, corporate performance. To me, collaboration only happens when there is a sustainable long-term win/win value proposition.  
Let’s take a closer look at two companies that talk a lot about collaboration. Both  Walmart  ($447 billion in annual revenues in 2012) and  Procter   Gamble   Procter   Gamble  ($85 billion in annual revenues in 2012) are power brokers in their respective industries. Each company wields power based on brand presence and size. While Walmart built Retailink and powered a network to share daily data daily, they improved trading partner performance and changed the industry. In contrast, P G has become less collaborative over the past ten years, lengthening terms of payables and pushing suppliers harder on transactional terms. As P G merged with  Gillette   Gillette , the company became more difficult for suppliers to work with. For more information on how these policies have impacted corporate performance, reference the two slides on trends on operating margin and inventory turns. Walmart has increased Days of Payables by four days over  the period of 2000-2012, while P G has increased it by 28 days.  
Power Position and the Cost of Capital.  Power brokers have the opportunity to redesign value networks and improve competitive leverage over trading partners. No company in CPG or food and beverage has used this as a strategy over the last decade. In the period of 2000-2013, 56 consumer packaged goods/food and beverage companies consolidated into nine companies.  With each consolidation, they gained market position. Yet, no company emerged as a leader in collaboration. Even though each company had the option to extend brand power and improved their  cost of capital to reduce the costs for working capital for their suppliers, the average number of days of payables for the two industry subsegments increased by ten. Along with the cost of complexity, aggregate inventories and cost rose within the  total   total  value network.  
Inventory Pushed Back in the Supply Chain.  Total inventories rose in the value chain over the last decade despite the spending of 1.7% on technologies. While most companies spoke the word, “collaboration” at conferences, companies did not walk the talk.  
Days of Payables Increasing. Costs Are Rising. Impact on the Planet Is Great.   Over 92% of companies today publish a Corporate Sustainability Document. We find, in research, that more than 70% of companies claim a “marketing advantage” or state a claim on corporate sustainability in their product positioning. Yet, we find that only 22% of companies are actually taking responsibility for the design of the value chain to reduce carbon, improve water usage and reduce waste. Ironically, 65% of nonrenewable resources are outside of the companies’ four walls. Increasing payables has a short-term impact on the balance sheet, but it has a longer-term negative impact on costs and resilience. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/loracecere/2013/12/13/what-happened-to-collaboration/