         

         


         
             Leadership 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 2:30PM
             | 161 views
     
		 Heroic Body Language: Squinching And Other Power Poses 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Lynda Carter as Wonder Woman–deflecting bullets, fighting crime, and offering body language lessons for the rest of us. (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Do you want to feel more powerful? And seem more powerful to others?  
It’s actually simple.  
1. Place your feet a little wider apart than your shoulders.  
2. Put your hands on your hips.  
3. Do a “squinch”: Squint your eyes ever so slightly, pinching and raising your lower eyelids up just a tad.  
Congratulations. You’re no longer an ordinary Joe or Jane. You’re now royalty, coolly surveying your empire. You’ll look that way to others. And science is increasingly demonstrating that you’re even summoning the same heady chemicals that give confidence to kings, queens, heroes and heroines.  
Confidence breeds success, which breeds confidence. You’re on your way. Send me a tiny commission based on your impending fortune.  
A Bold, New Look  
The squinch is the latest  rage , thanks to photographer Peter Hurley, who has shown in a  recent YouTube video  how it can immediately make celebrities and mortals alike more photogenic.  
Then combine that with the work of Harvard professor Amy Cuddy, who has found that even just faking a power pose or a happy pose results in a corresponding physiological, chemical boost. It also makes a better impression on others. (See her now-legendary  TED  talk  here .)  
Cuddy noted that the famous  Wonder Woman pose  is a dominant stance that both supplies inner power to you and conveys power to others. (If you’d prefer to emulate a more XY member of the DC Comics universe, here are  a few iterations  of this guy.)  
Fake It To Make It  
Cuddy has also suggested that, before an important event that’s got us nervous, we can slip into a restroom, briefly put on a power pose (like using our arms and legs to turn our body into a large, dominant “X”), and actually gather some of the alpha steam necessary for maximum performance.  
Hurley has made a worthwhile contribution of his own, though, to the realm of management. As a photographer, his interest was mainly in helping people pose for a camera. But what’s good for the camera is good for the boardroom, the interview, the sales call, the negotiation and the first date (all of which constitute, as Cuddy says, “evaluative” situations).  
“Confidence comes from the eyes,” Hurley says. “So does fear.” In his video, he proceeds to demonstrate how fear and nervousness result in us making our eyes larger, “like a deer in the headlights.”  
When we “squinch,” pinching our eyes ever-so-slightly, we immediately take on an alpha pose. Hurley suggests looking at photos of celebrities, at which point you’ll notice that most of them are squinching.  
Now let’s take Hurley’s brilliant observation a bit further—after all, this isn’t about your portraits, it’s about your persona. Do a google image search of, say,  George Clooney , and you’ll indeed see him squinching at all times. But it can’t be that he turns from  Bambi  to  Clint Eastwood  when he senses a camera nearby; frankly, he’s being photographed all the time.  For such public figures, the squinching preceded the fame—and probably helped enable the fame.  
Does it really work? In my own experience, it has. I was one of the shyest children around; but I loved my Marvel superhero comics, and over time I found myself subtly mimicking the power stances depicted by Marvel artists  John Buscema  and  Jack Kirby . Those poses just felt comforting. Cuddy’s research now makes clear that such posturing by a shy child may have made the child less shy. And even today, I tend to notice occasionally that I have an exaggerated, wide stance when I stand. I’m a walking comic book, and somehow am better for it.  
As for squinching, that came quite naturally to me in my angry teen and early adult years. At some point, friends advised me to take on a warmer persona, at which point I probably overcompensated and offered oversized eyes to the world. Only after seeing Hurley’s video did I realize that there’s real power in the squinch.  
And yes, the squinch can be done with warmth. Just google images of your favorite celebrities for proof.  
[Stay posted on more career news and advice by hitting  Follow  at the top of this page, or by following me on  Twitter .  You can find my writing archive at www.RobAsghar.com.]   
  




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How Not To Freak Out When You Meet Someone You Admire
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     The Muse 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Bloom Where You're Planted In 2014
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Rob Asghar 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    This Body Language Infographic May Save -- Or Land -- Your Job
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Nick Morgan 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/robasghar/2013/12/13/heroic-body-language-squinching-and-other-power-poses/