         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 2:02PM
             | 202 views
     
		 The Next Commissioner Of Major League Baseball Likely To Be... 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Is Rob Manfred the next commissioner of Major League Baseball? Signs are all pointing that way. 
 
In the 1990s, author John Helyar wrote a seminar fly-on-the-wall account of Major League Baseball from a business of baseball perspective. From the mid-‘60s on, it is fraught with tales of bumbling, infighting, and acrimony between not only the owners and the MLB  Players  Association, but between the owners themselves. The book,  Lords of the Realm , showed the owners as distracted, and unable to fathom that the players should be considered not only hired hands, but partners. With the distractions within the owners ranks, the union for the players grew into arguably the strongest in North America.  
That was then. The book ends at a point where Fay Vincent is ousted from the commissioner’s position, and in his place the small-market owner of the Milwaukee Brewers is installed as “acting” commissioner.  
The owner was, of course, Bud Selig. Since September 9, 1992, when, as Chairman of the Major League Executive Council, he became interim Commissioner and then when he was unanimously elected Baseball’s ninth Commissioner on July 9, 1998, Selig has done what none of his processors–Kenesaw Mountain Landis the possible exception—could not. He has been able to pull the owners together into a cohesive element. While Selig has been seen as somewhat bumbling for the cameras, he’s been a master consensus builder behind the scenes. Those that follow him know that he’s a man constantly working the phone and has a unique ability to make large revenue and small revenue owners feel like he understands their given plights.  
In late September of this year, Selig announced that he would be retiring upon the completion of his current term, which runs through January 24, 2015. Selig, one known to say repeatedly that he would be retiring, only to be signed on again when the owners begged him to, means it this time as he’s restructuring the executive staff in advance of the date.  
What has been on the minds of those watching MLB as an industry is, who will replace him? Selig has had the longest tenure since Landis and overseen a lengthy stretch of labor peace beginning in 2002, something that hadn’t happened prior when the MLBPA became a force beginning in 1966. On top of Selig’s departure, the MLBPA has recently seen Tony Clark become the new Executive Director after the untimely passing of Michael Weiner due to an inoperable brain tumor. With Selig retiring, and Michael Weiner’s death, baseball is at a historic crossroads.  
So, the  next   next  commissioner of Major League Baseball is stepping into a critical point in baseball’s history. Given the backdrop of Selig’s tenure, and league restructuring of key executives, there seems to be a high probability that Rob Manfred will be baseball’s next commissioner.  
Manfred has worked for Major League Baseball since 1998, most recently served as Executive Vice President for  Economics    League Affairs, responsible for major economic matters such as revenue sharing and the debt service rule, as well as franchise-specific matters involving the 30 Major League Clubs. Shortly after Selig announced his plans for retirement, he made Manfred the new Chief Operating Officer of Major League Baseball. In doing so, a position that had been missing since Bob DuPuy left the league in 2010 was filled: ostensibly a full second in command.  
This week further moves seemed to being furrowing the ground for Manfred to take over as commissioner. Where Manfred had been involved in labor negotiations when they came up for renewal in 2002, 2006 and 2011, all of which occurred without lockouts or strikes, on Thursday, Selig appointed Dan Halem as Executive Vice President, Labor Relations for Major League Baseball where he would report to Manfred.  
This isn’t to say Manfred is a home run to be approved for the position. There are rumors of at least two owners in small-to-mid markets currently not 100 percent in favor of it, but there’s some scenarios by which it will be hard not to say that Manfred, will indeed, be the next commissioner of MLB.  
As was the case when Marvin Miller, the iconic executive director of the MLBPA retired, and Donald Fehr took over, Selig could retire but still be involved in baseball in an advisory capacity. This does two things: it forges forward the “Selig doctrine” that has unified the owners and helped make them extremely prosperous, while at the same time allowing a known figure in baseball’s executive ranks to take over. The move provides continuity and stability, something that eases the minds of their broadcast partners in FOX,  ESPN   ESPN , and TBS, and sends a message that while there is leadership change afoot, it’s not something that spells possible radical upheaval.  
At the same time, it allows the owners to make a change without the change being an unknown quantity. The transition would be relatively smooth as Manfred has been in contact with all the owners regularly. Throw in his relationship with the union for the players, and it offers a sense that when Selig retires, the legacy of sorts around labor relations, the drug policy, and more, continues.  
Finally, there’s this. When I asked a high-placed MLB executive if there were any plans to create a search committee to replace Selig, the answer was, “I sincerely hope not.” While there’s plenty of time to create one that would look at multiple candidates both inside and outside baseball, there has been no noise to speak of on the subject. Baseball continues to move forward in a “business as usual” fashion as Selig continues to restructure the front office. No bellowing from any of the owners. Not a peep.  
Follow Maury Brown on Twitter  @BizbalMaury 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/maurybrown/2013/12/13/the-next-commissioner-of-major-league-baseball-likely-to-be/