         

         


         
             Business 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:50PM
             | 77 views
     
		 Writing To Discard: An Essential Habit For Writers 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    “Journal entry” by Joel Montes de Oca 
   
  “We all think it’s dead obvious that a musician has practice time devoted solely to “work” meant to be discarded. But programmers…” 
 
So  wrote programming instructor and game developer Kathy Sierra  on Twitter the other day, a tweet that really resonated with me because it’s not just programmers who are either not given the time or don’t take the time to simply practice. In writing too, and especially with the spectre of self-publishing hanging over us, it can be hard to write something that you know will be thrown away.  
But like any skill, writing takes practice and that practice is best done within the safe confines of the unpublished page. If everything you do is written to be read, you give yourself no room to develop, to experiment, or to be a bit rubbish. What if you want to try to make your writing punchier, more active? Or you want to improve your descriptions, or develop your powers of observation? Would you seriously foist such practice on your readers? And if you’re not practicing, how are you improving?  
About a decade ago, I was writing throwaway work every day, after years of not writing at all and being very unhappy about the fact. A friend of mine had recommended  The Artist’s Way  by Julia Cameron, a book for blocked creatives of all sorts that works you through a twelve week program of exercises aimed at mending your broken confidence and fostering creative thought. I never completed the full course because I got what I needed from one specific exercise that Cameron recommends:  morning ages . Morning pages are simple, you just sit down first thing in the morning and write. Write anything. Don’t give it to anyone, don’t publish it, blog it, or even read it back to yourself. Just write whatever comes into your mind, your stream of consciousness, or ‘freewriting’ as it is sometimes called.  
Cameron’s morning pages are one form of practice that helps writers to loosen up their creative muscles, but there are plenty of others out there. The internet is chock full of creative writing exercises that will help you improve your craft and get your brain moving on days when it feels sluggish.  Writing Exercises , even has a  plot generator  that gives you two characters, a setting, a situation and a theme to get you moving. But there are so many websites available with lists of exercises, there’s no excuse not to do something every day.  
I gave up on my morning pages years ago because I thought that I didn’t need them anymore. That turns out to not be true at all – for days and weeks when I tell myself I’m too busy to write, I’m telling myself a lie. It’s not that I’m too busy, it’s that I’ve lost confidence. It’s not that anything particular has happened, it’s just that the failure to write, day on day, gives a voice to my inner editor, that 500 lb gorilla who so likes to take my ego outside and beat it to within an inch of its life.  
Part of this is the ever-looming presence of the internet, and in particular the lure of self-publishing. I’ve said before that  it’s a mistake to publish work that isn’t properly finished , but it’s also a mistake to write everything as if it’s for publication. It’s only too easy to feel as if you ought to be producing more  — and more of everything: short stories, novellas, novels — because the more content that you have available, the more frequently you publish, the more of a profile you can build, the more publicity you can do and the more income you’ll get. The pressure is fierce.  
But as creative folk we need time and space to experiment, to learn, to play, to enjoy our writing on our own terms, to write for our own satisfaction and no one else’s. We need time to write free from not just other people’s judgement, but also our own. We need to muzzle that 500 lb gorilla, tie it up in a corner and ignore it whilst we give ourselves space to muck about, make mistakes, and do things we’ve not done before.  
Despite my usual misgivings about New Year’s Resolutions, come January I’m going to restart my old habit of writing morning pages. I will do a minimum of 300 words every morning before I even touch my computer. I will not read it back, judge it, or show it to anyone else. It will be my space to write whatever the hell I like and, through doing so, to improve.  
Who’s with me? 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Three Writing Tools I Can't Live Without
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Suw Charman-Anderson 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    When Has Your Book Finished Cooking?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Suw Charman-Anderson 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/suwcharmananderson/2013/12/13/writing-to-discard-an-essential-habit-for-writers/