         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:47PM
             | 579 views
     
		 Sales Operations: Lessons Learned From Fraser Bullock, Mitt Romney, And The 2002 Winter Olympics 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    56 comments, 53 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
What would you ask a man who is  Managing  Director of  Sorenson Capital , Chairman of the Board of the  #1 tourist attraction in Hawaii , former COO of the Salt Lake City 2002 Winter  Olympics , former Chairman of the Board of Omniture, and a current board member of 7 companies including a new Advisory Board member and shareholder at our own InsideSales.com?  
And did I mention he helped found Bain Capital with Mitt Romney and would have been heavily involved in our federal government today if the last election had gone differently?  
Yesterday I had an hour and a half with Fraser Bullock, the very man.  

  
   Fraser Bullock, Managing Director of Sorenson Capital, former COO of the 2002 Winter Olympics and new Advisory Board Member and shareholder of InsideSales.com, talks with Ken Krogue about the hot discipline of Sales Operations 
 
My questions were about business operations, specifically sales operations.  
When you talk about operations the name Fraser Bullock comes up a lot in Utah circles.  
I believe sales operations is the new secret sauce behind successful sales organizations and I’m trying to learn from the best to help define the space better.  
My first question: “What is operations?”  
Fraser replied, “It’s having a plan. Not moving on an ad-hoc basis.”  
“It’s deploying tools, resources, leadership, and people in a way to achieve a goal. It’s a discipline, not an art. And today’s tools, metrics, and analytics allow for true planning around an ROI strategy like never before.”  
“Omniture turned what was a fuzzy art into a clear science of web marketing. “  
“That is where sales is going now. It’s about knowing your job, the right training, resources that you need, tools that provide leverage, decisive leadership, and clear measurement.”  
I was intrigued, “Tell me more about Omniture.”  
He sat forward on his seat as he responded, “Omniture and  Josh James  led the charge in how marketing changed. Before you would buy a television ad and have no idea how well it worked. Now you can buy a keyword on  Google   Google  and watch your analytics change immediately. You know if your investment paid off or not, and you know where to put your money for even better results. Josh James has now moved his focus to real time executive dashboards analytics with his new company Domo to continue the charge.”  

  
   Josh James, former CEO of Omniture and CEO of Domo helped lead the charge of turning marketing into a science 
 
“Marketing is no longer amorphous, and sales is learning these same lessons. This whole world of sales automation tools is uncovering the need for a toolkit that allows for true forecasting and measures ROI.” 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Mitt Romney Backs Boston Olympics But Warns It Won't Make Money
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     John Clarke 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    If We Knew In 2012 What We Now Know About Obamacare, Would Romney Be President Now?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Quora 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Fresh From World Series Win, Boston Eyes The 2024 Olympics
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     John Clarke 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kenkrogue/2013/12/13/sales-operations-lessons-learned-from-fraser-bullock-mitt-romney-and-the-2002-winter-olympics/