         

         


         
             Markets 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:44PM
             | 1,114 views
     
		 Wall Street In 2014: Why The Bubble Could Grow Much Bigger Before Busting 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    2 comments, 2 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
There have been best and worst years for Wall Street. This was one of the best, for equities.  
The S P500 (NYSE:SPY) is hitting one new high after another; NASDAQ (NASDAQ:QQQ) is racing towards the elusive pre-dot.com crash mark; and a number of hot stocks are trading at astronomical PEs.  
Is this a bubble?  
Some think it is. Equity prices have been pushed to artificially high levels, due to a tsunami of liquidity unleashed by the central banks of US, EU, and Japan. Others think that valuations are still moderate by historical standards, and an improving economy justifies higher valuations.  
I’m in the first camp. This doesn’t mean that I expect the bubble to burst any time soon. On the contrary, I believe the bubble could grow bigger and a lot of faster in 2014 before it goes bust. Investors will be taken by two fears — the fear of missing out, and the fear of losing out.  
As I wrote In  Intelligent Investing In  Irrational Markets (Palgrave McMillan, 2013), investors often decide with emotions rather than reason, committing cognitive errors that lead to harmful behavior – such as overtrading, buying high and selling low, or vice versa.  
One of these emotions is fear, which takes two forms: the fear of missing out on potential gains, and the fear of losing actual gains.  
The fear of missing out is an “emotional button” that is usually turned on in bull markets, as investors score a string of quick gains — turning the bull market into a bubble. While a quick gain evokes excitement, a string of quick gains turns excitement into euphoria, which feeds into greed. That can become contagious with human interactions, as investors rush and race to copy and imitate the behavior of each other.  
At times, euphoria turns into a mania that has people chasing after all sorts of objects—creating market bubbles.  
Widespread investor overconfidence is supported and reinforced by positive word-of-mouth (WOM) and buzz over certain investment theme and stocks and cheap money.In the late 1990s, for instance, investment buzz over dot.com and network technologies had investors chasing after the stocks of companies with shady fundamentals — only to lose a great deal of money when the high-tech bubble burst in early 2000s.  
In 2006–2007, investment buzz over the prospects of the housing industry had investors pouring money into homebuilder and financial stocks, which tumbled when the housing bubble burst.  
Like individuals, collective overconfidence is usually aggravated by mental accounting, as investors end up chasing one class of assets (rather than diversifying) and end up buying when valuations are high. That was the case in the high-tech bubble of the late 1990s. Investors who invested in the technology-heavy NASDAQ during the high-tech bubble of the late 1990s- early 2000s made big gains as the bubble blew, but lost a great deal of money as the bubble burst in the early 2000s.  
The fear of losing out is another emotional button that is turned on by a string of losing bets. Overconfidence is succeeded by over-pessimism, negative WOM succeeds positive WOM, and the bubble busts.  
The market correction that began in 1929, for instance, took the price of US stocks down by 86 percent. The October 1987 correction drove US equities down 20 percent over three days. Investors panicked over a collapse of the dollar and rising interest rates, which made stocks less appealing than alternative investments. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Six Rules of Intelligent Investing
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Panos Mourdoukoutas 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Keep Your Wall Street, Bitcoin And Lottery Winnings
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Panos Mourdoukoutas 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Protect Your Wealth From Wall Street Bubbles And Busts
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Panos Mourdoukoutas 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/panosmourdoukoutas/2013/12/13/wall-street-in-2014-why-the-bubble-could-grow-much-bigger-before-busting/