         

         


         
             Lifestyle 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:37PM
             | 353 views
     
		 Next Lamborghini Is No Bull 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Lamborghini Sesto Elemento (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
The anticipated replacement for the longstanding Lamborghini Gallardo exotic sports car will be named Huracan according to a report in the U.K.’s Auto Express. Anticipated next year as a 2015 model, the low-slung coupe is expected to pack a naturally aspirated 5.2-liter V10 engine that could generate in excess of 600 horsepower and come mated to a seven speed dual-clutch automated manual transmission. The car’s design is said to be inspired by the limited production racetrack-ready Sesto Elemento.  
That would ordinarily be news enough, but the Huracan moniker – as one might infer it’s Spanish for hurricane, and also derived from the Mayan god of fire, wind and storms – departs from the brand’s custom of naming its supercars after prized fighting bulls, as was the case with the Gallardo.  
Ferruccio Lamborghini founded the company in 1963 in the Italian village of Sant’Agata Bolognese as an extension of his then-successful business as a tractor manufacturer. As a lover of bulls and born under the sign of Taurus, Lamborghini adopted a bull as his corporate symbol, and most of the company’s models have or have had a connection to bulls.  
The devilish Diablo, for example, derived its nameplate from a Spanish fighting bull bred by the Duke of Veragua that’s said to have battled the matador “El Chicorro” in a legendary 1869 fight that lasted for several hours. The Murcielago was named after a legendary fighting bull whose life was spared, as the story goes, after valiantly standing up to 24 jabs at the end of a matador’s sword in 1879. Its successor, the Aventador, was likewise named after a bull, in this case one was killed in a particularly gruesome fight in Saragossa, Spain in 1993.  
Of course there have been exceptions to the rule over the years, notably the outrageous LM002 SUV and the Countach coupe. The latter (according to Wikipedia) is an expression of astonishment used by Piedmontese men upon sighting a beautiful woman that famed stylist Nuccio Bertone exclaimed when he first saw the sports car’s prototype. And the Sesto Elemento upon which the Huracan will reportedly be based is Italian for “Sixth Element,” which (as some Big Bang Theory fans likely know) refers to the atomic number of carbon, after the car’s extensive use of lightweight carbon fiber materials.  
We have no doubt that with 600 raging horses under its long hood, the Huracan will indeed rock its well-heeeled owners like a hurricane, but also wonder if the automaker, perhaps prompted by its corporate overlords at parent company Volkswagen, isn’t kneeling before the altar of political correctness as it christens the new model. Bull fighting, after all, tends to be frowned upon in most of the civilized world as a form of animal cruelty. As it is, VW has a history of naming its cars after meteorological phenomena – the Passat, Jetta, Golf, Polo, Corrado, Scirocco, et. al. are all named after prominent winds.  
Or we could just be blowing a lot of hot air over what amounts to only a minor dustup.  
Follow us on Forbes.com, Facebook , Twitter and Pinterest . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Men See Red, Women Take A Shine To Silver When Car Shopping, Survey Says
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Jim Gorzelany 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Tesla Could Be Planning An F-150 Fighter...Really
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Jim Gorzelany 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/jimgorzelany/2013/12/13/next-lamborghini-is-no-bull/