         

         


         
             Business 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:24PM
             | 466 views
     
		 Mike Shanahan Benching RG3 Is Both Profit-Maximizing And Irritant-Maximizing Behavior 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Mike Shanahan 
   
 
Sometimes things just work out in life.  
Most of us have wanted to  stick it  to our employer or to a co-worker somehow someway when we feel we’ve been wronged or otherwise mistreated within the workplace.  But most of us don’t.  
Why?  Economics.  We don’t want to get fired because we have limited means, we need that next paycheck, and we don’t have another job waiting in the wings…especially in this sluggish economy.  As a result, out of fear of both the financial repercussions of acting out against workforce foes and/or the desire to maintain some degree of cordiality within the workplace for comfort’s sake, we take our employment frustrations home with us.  
Seldom in life are we afforded an opportunity to vet those frustrations publicly in a way that not only acts to irritate those we take issue with, but also enables us to mask such behavior as the  profit-maximizing thing to do.   It would be so much easier to act out against someone we work with or for if there was a financially justifiable reasoning for doing so.  
Enter Washington Redskins head football coach, Mike Shanahan, and the drama that has engulfed his relationship with 2nd year quarterback, Robert Griffin III, dating back to the end of the 2012 season.  
Citing concerns about Griffin’s long-term health and preparedness for the 2014 season,  Mr. Shanahan described in detail  at a press conference earlier this week his decision to bench RG3 for the Redskins’ final 3 games of the 2013 season.  
To this, I say  brilliant .  
Because whatever Mike Shanahan’s true motivation is here, there is a most logical and profit-maximizing reason why the young QB’s benching is justified.  
I know football lifers like  John Madden have poo-pooed Shanahan’s logic , but here are the facts:  
- Because of the knee injury RG3 sustained at the end of the 2012 season, he missed a full off-season of work and pre-season work that would have enabled him to have a more productive sophomore season in the NFL;  
- RG3 has regressed this year, and his development has not been aided by a porous offensive line that has been downright offensive in their ability to protect the franchise quarterback;  
- Whether due to the beating he has taken this year or the fact that his knee simply didn’t have enough time to recover during the off-season, he is not 100%.  
- The Redskins have been eliminated from playoff contention.  
Given all these facts, the profit-maximizing thing for the organization to do is to sit RG3 the rest of 2013.  Nothing is gained by having him play out the string. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/prishe/2013/12/13/mike-shanahan-benching-rg3-is-both-profit-maximizing-and-irritant-maximizing-behavior/