         

         


         
             Retail 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:17PM
             | 195 views
     
		 Retail Holiday 2013 Sales: The Final Lap 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
We’re coming ‘round the bend to the final lap of the 2013 Christmas selling season.  On the surface, it appears sales have been  
reasonably strong, with the National  Retail  Federation (NRF) reporting November sales up 3.9% against last year and expectations that the season will net out at or above  the trade association’s holiday forecast, which was also for 3.9% growth.  These numbers exclude automobiles, gas station and restaurant sales.  On the surface, this is very good news for retailers and consumers alike, as retailers pulled out all their promotional stops, and consumers hopped on board to grab the deals.  
According to the U.S Census Bureau sales report the most robust year-over-year gains were seen in big ticket sellers like electronics and appliance stores (+8% over last year), and furniture and home furnishing stores (9.4% over last year). That means chains like Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn,  Best Buy   Best Buy  and hh Gregg have had a top-line feast.  My take on this is that the rebounding housing market is driving high-value purchases for the home.  When you realize you’ve actually got some equity in your home again, it’s exciting to go out and buy something to put in it.  
The most anemic increases were seen by general merchandise stores (think  Target   Target , Walmart and other big box retailers). Those store sales were essentially flat with a reported .9% increase over last year. I believe there are a couple of reasons behind this.  One, heavy promotional activity decreased the dollar value of every sale.  So while the number of units sold may have risen, the average selling price was likely down. Two, I think there are just too many general merchandise stores, period.  When a shopper is presented with a Target on one block, a Walmart on the  next   next  street, and dollar stores scattered between them, you can bet she’s not going to stop into every single place. She’ll pick one or the other of the big-box boys, and then fill out her basket at a dollar store. They essentially cannibalize each other’s sales. The third reason is… Amazon.com   Amazon.com . Amazon is a 21 st  century version of the original Sears catalog or a real-life version of Alice’s restaurant.  “You can get anything you want.”  So as on-line sales continue their double-digit increase march, you can assume much of it is coming out of the shopping carts of those big box retail stores.  After all, they’re all trading in commodities.  There’s not a lot of magic in their product mixes, and most don’t have enough unique products to would drive traffic specifically to them.  I’m not saying Target doesn’t have cool stuff.  It sure does.  But the bulk of its product mix remains…bulk.  
Clothing and clothing accessories’ stores fell slightly above the average, with a year over year increase of 4.4%.  Again, the top line numbers are good, but I’m still a bit concerned.  
Many retail watchers, including this one have raised red flags about inventory levels, particularly for apparel retailers.  No matter how you look at it, that inventory has got to get out of stores and distribution centers over the next twelve days.  While there’s an additional post- Christmas selling period as consumers start using their gift card presents, soon afterwards, spring product has got to flow into stores.  Over the entire year, total import increases now appear to be roughly in line with projected sales increases.  That would seem to indicate that we’re in pretty good shape.  However, the most recent imports are likely merchandise to be sold in 2014 – in other words, it’s the stuff we want to put on the shelves when the holiday season is done.  
So what should we look for?  We’ll know for sure by early next week’s TV advertisements but in some cases, we seem to have a sense already. For example, a look at Old Navy’s web site announces a three day special:  “Everything’s on Sale: 30%, 40% or 50% off everything in the store.”  On the one hand, Old Navy’s going in position on Thanksgiving was 30% off.  But 50%?  It’s tough to make money selling product at half-price.  Previous markdown avoiders Abercrombie and Fitch are already announcing 50% off all tops, both in store AND on line.  Uh-oh.  Chico’s is offering up to 60% off already reduced styles. That’s one serious markdown.  To prove my point, the same company is offering “only” 30% off “new arrivals.”  That’s the spring product I mentioned earlier.  It’s time to start selling it.  
Next week promises to be the highlight of entertainment for retail watchers, and a real nail biter for retailers themselves.  After that, the world will get quiet until we start hearing the other all-important numbers – what did all those markdowns actually cost?  What will earnings look like?  For me, that’ll be the final magic number.  Sales driving down to earnings.  This is when the fun really begins!  
Side note:  I had a hard time wrapping my head around the National Retail Federation’s announcement of year-over-year sales vs. “seasonally adjusted” sales.  As a retailer, we never talked about seasonally adjusted sales beyond the impact of snowstorms and other dramatic external events.  I dropped Stephen Schatz, senior director of media relations at the NRF a line asking for an explanation.  He was kind enough to give me a call to explain.  As near as I can understand, seasonally adjusted numbers have to do with the different dates holidays fall on (think early Chanukah sales). Those adjustments are made by the Census Bureau. I have opted to use straight unadjusted numbers, because when the final bell is rung, the season will be the season.  It may have started early, but Christmas and New Year’s haven’t been moved.  I do thank Stephen for giving me a call and taking the time to explain how the adjusted numbers work. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/paularosenblum/2013/12/13/retail-holiday-2013-sales-the-final-lap/