         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/07/2013 @ 10:35AM
             | 5,276 views
     
		 Microsoft's Xbox One May Be Losing The Console War Due To Kinect Alone 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    6 comments, 2 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
Working in this industry, I tend to make predictions quite a bit. Usually they pan out, like the bad feeling I had that the Wii U was going to bomb for  Nintendo   Nintendo  without new appeal to non-gamers, or that Micosoft would be forced to changes its DRM/used game policies because of public outcry.  
But sometimes I’m wrong. I went too far in my assumptions regarding  Microsoft   Microsoft , saying that  the one final step they’d take would be to detach the Kinect from the Xbox One so they were able to match  Sony's   Sony's  $400  price point. They announced that the Xbox One would no longer need the Kinect to function, and the obvious next step was that they could then make it entirely optional.  
They didn’t. I was wrong, and the Xbox One launched bound to Kinect at $500.  
Now that both consoles are selling well, it’s easy to say that Microsoft made a perfectly fine call. But they are losing. When Sony comes out and says they’ve sold 2.1M  units, and  Microsoft PR responds by saying  “50 million hours have been spent playing our  games ” instead of revealing their own numbers, that means they’re losing. By what margin, I’m not sure, but would they be on even footing were it not for the higher price point because of Kinect? Analyst Michael Patcher seems to think so.  

  “The reason Sony beats Microsoft is solely the price,” Pachter said . “Microsoft loses the next generation unless they cut price. If Microsoft drops its price to $399, I expect the sales to be equal to the PS4.” 
 
The problem is that Microsoft can’t really afford to simply drop the price to $400 to match Sony without taking a huge loss on the console. Because of the hardware involved with each system, both companies are barely turning a profit on each unit. Microsoft might sell more by cutting, but if they’re losing money by doing so, that may not matter.  
The question now is if the Kinect is offering enough value to justify putting Microsoft in a worse position than Sony during this holiday launch. So far, opinions are mixed.  
While I have friends who like the little Kinect features like being able to shout out substitutions in FIFA, others like our own Erik Kain say that  the system still isn’t perfect , which is especially frustrating for gesture and voice controls. Even if it works 95% of the time, that margin of error is what many users will remember as they try to get the system to do what they want by waving their hands or talking, when they could have just as easily pushed a button for a consistent result, every time.  
And then there are the games. This new Kinect was supposed to have a whole host of new upgrades making it worthwhile for a variety of genres, but at launch, once again the only worthwhile titles appear to be fitness and dance games, just like last generation. Games that are trying to utilize the new capabilities of Kinect 2.0 are failing miserably like the widely derided Fighter Within, with an astonishingly bad  26 on Metacritic.  
IGN  sums it up :  

  “Its gesture recognition is abysmal, its fighting is shallow, and it wastes too much time trying to clumsily tell a silly, unnecessary story. In short, it’s everything Microsoft promised Kinect 2.0 wouldn’t be.” 
 
In short, I can’t find support for the argument that Kinect 2.0 has given Microsoft an edge over Sony. Perhaps it adds  some  value to the Xbox One, but $100 or more worth? I don’t think so. Take away Kinect, and you have two $400 system that are more or less equivalent. PS4 might have a slight edge in power, but I think Xbox One has a better launch line-up with the promise of more good exclusives on the horizon (Titanfall). But with Kinect, an increased price for not enough value might be all some consumers see.  
This may change over time. Perhaps Kinect will continue to evolve and someday find its place as a sought-after accessory that overwhelmingly makes games better. But that’s what I said about the original Kinect, and its successor has yet to live up to that promise. I’m not convinced it ever will.  
Follow me on Twitter , subscribe to my Forbes feed , and pick up a copy of my sci-fi novel, The Last Exodus , and its sequel, The Exiled Earthborn . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How Do You Solve A Problem Like The Wii U?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Erik Kain 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Sony Reveals 2.1 Million Global PS4 Sales
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Who Will Buy A $500 Steam Machine?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2013/12/07/microsofts-xbox-one-may-be-losing-the-console-war-due-to-kinect-alone/