         

         


         
             Pharma  &  Healthcare 
         
         | 
     
        12/07/2013 @ 9:47AM
             | 41 views
     
		 Do Drugmaker Plans To Release Trial Data Go Far Enough? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
As the controversy over disclosing clinical trial data grows more heated, the pharmaceutical industry increasingly finds itself on the defensive. But are drugmakers doing enough to restore public trust and confidence in their business practices while also protecting confidential data? Or are they risking regulatory action that may impose unwanted consequences?  
At issue is the ability for researchers to independently verify results and, consequently, improve patient treatment that can lead to improved health and lower costs. This sentiment has picked up steam in the wake of various safety scandals, as well as product-liability litigation that revealed data for some drugs was never fully disclosed or published.  
“What we’ve learned from people in other industries, such as people who drill holes in the Gulf of Mexico, is that the more trust there is for their products, they more leeway they have with regulation,” said Hans Eichler, senior medical officer at the EMA, who was speaking last week at a conference on clinical trial data disclosure issues at the Harvard University School of Public Health.  
The EMA, in fact, wants to proactively make trial data, which is submitted in connection with marketing approval for a drug, available to researchers once an approval has been made. An aggressive online campaign called  AllTrials  is trying to pressure drugmakers for greater disclosure. And BMJ, the British Medical Journal, will no longer publish studies unless anonymized patient-level data is made available.  
How has the pharmaceutical industry responded? Not as Eichler may have hoped. The trade groups in the US and Europe released their own voluntary guidelines for data disclosure, which critics derided, but they also attacked the EMA proposal and then made a clumsy effort to organize patient groups to protest. Meanwhile, two drugmakers took the regulator to court to prevent data from being released.   
In general, the pharmaceutical industry argues that releasing patient-level data may compromise patient privacy, undermine trust in the regulatory system, increase the risk data would be misinterpreted and weaken incentives for research. This last point refers to industry concerns that confidential commercial information would be handed to rivals.  
Legitimate concerns aside, there seems to be a growing awareness, at least among some drugmakers, that stomping feet and openly chastising regulators may not be a winning hand. And so, several drugmakers next month are expected to join to a web site that was recently launched by GlaxoSmithKline in order to satisfy the clamor for wider access to detailed study data.  
The Glaxo ( GSK ) site is supposed to make available patient-level data from its clinical trials to independent researchers, which means that other scientists will have an opportunity to study the material and develop their own findings about safety and effectiveness. The effort also includes data for discontinued drugs and the drugmaker, by the way, has created a separate panel to review and approve requests.  
At the same time, Pfizer ( PFE ) has just announced an updated policy of its own and a web site that purportedly will publish large amounts of trial data and also offer a procedure for independent researchers to obtain study data for analysis. Like Glaxo, the drugmaker is creating a separate panel for just this purpose (mor e here ).  
But these plans may have a fundamental weakness. Aside from other issues raised by some researchers – the Pfizer policy does not cover all Pfizer trials, for instance, and some academics are squabbling with Glaxo over its reluctance to release certain trial data for its Paxil antidepressant ( back story ) – these in-house programs allow the drugmakers to hold sway over the procedure for approving data requests.  
For their part, Glaxo and Pfizer maintain their panels are independent and, essentially, will function like Data Safety Monitoring Boards that review trial data for safety and effectiveness signals as clinical studies are under way. Just the same, the drugmakers are deciding on the composition of their panels, both of which contain people who have worked as consultants ( more here ).  
Of course, there is debate about the extent to which such a relationship could undermine these efforts. But to some, the panels may be seen as something less than an independent. For this reason, a group of academics and consultants, some of whom are affiliated with the Multi-Regional Clinical Trials Center at Harvard University, have proposed an independent board to find a way through the disclosure thicket.  
The MRCT calls this a learned intermediary, which would act as a disinterested arbiter in sorting out researcher requests and industry objections. This board would be independent of drugmakers and research institutions that conducted the trials at issue, as well as regulatory agencies, and also ensure that only the minimum data necessary to answer the request are released.  
As they see it, such an entity can manage and monitor how data-use agreements are executed and enforce adherence, such issuing cease-and-desist letters, posting public notices of violations and reporting them to institutions and journals. A board could also demand that data be returned, deny future data requests and seek injunctions or money damages in court.  
The notion was recently broached in The New England Journal of Medicine ( see this ) and the authors included Michelle Mello, a professor of law and public health at the Harvard School of Public Health and lead author of the report; Jeff Francer, assistant general counsel at the PhRMA trade group; Mark Barnes, an attorney at the Ropes   Gray law firm whose clients include drugmakers; Barbara Bierer, a senior vice president for research at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital; and Patricia Teden, a former senior director of strategic business at Pfizer, who is now an industry consultant (see disclosures  here ).  
Whether such a system can work is also a wild card, though, and may well raise some of the same issues surrounding the panels assembled by Glaxo and Pfizer – notably, who gets to decide which experts will comprise a learned intermediary? How will such an entity be governed in the event of serious disputes that are likely to occur? And will the MRCT have to broaden the circle of participants to include industry critics before a program can be developed? 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/edsilverman/2013/12/07/do-drugmaker-plans-to-release-trial-data-go-far-enough/