         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/07/2013 @ 9:23AM
             | 721 views
     
		 The WTO Achieves The Trade Deal We Don't Need 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    2 comments, 2 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
The WTO is leaping for joy and patting itself on the back as they have finally managed, for the first time in the organisation’s existence, to all agree to and sign an international trade deal. The sad thing about all of this is that we didn’t actually need a trade deal and we didn’t need everyone to sign up to anything at all. For the sensible and logical, economically sound, trade agreement is unilateral free trade and you just don’t need to have an agreement with anyone at all to  achieve that .  

  The World Trade Organization reached its first ever trade reform deal on Saturday to the roar of approval from nearly 160 ministers who had gathered on the Indonesian island of Bali to decide on the make-or-break agreement that could add $1 trillion to the global economy  
  The approval came after Cuba dropped a last-gasp threat to veto the package of measures.  
  “For the first time in our history, the WTO has truly delivered,” WTO chief Roberto Azevedo told exhausted ministers after the talks which had dragged into an extra day on the tropical resort island.  
  “This time the entire membership came together. We have put the ‘world’ back in World Trade Organization,” he said. “We’re back in business…Bali is just the beginning.” 
 
It is of course all very lovely and no doubt those exhausted ministers will be congratulating themselves with a bit of taxpayer funded champagne. And it is also true that they project that global GDP will rise by some $1 trillion as a result of this deal. That’s not actually a huge amount, perhaps $1.5%, but it is welcome of course.  
But the entire charade (yes, including the taxpayer funded champagne) is entirely unnecessary. For it is imports that are the things we desire from trade, it is imports that make us richer. And why on Earth do we have to have agreements with other countries in order to buy stuff from them and take it home?  
Think through this for a moment. My household imports beer from Pilsner Urquell. And why not? It is, after all, one of the best beers in the world, made just down the road from here and costs $1.50 per half litre. It’s also, and this is the important point, very much better beer than I can produce on my own. So, I therefore import this beer and it makes my life better that I do so: it makes me richer in fact. In order to do this of course I have to export something from my household and that’s my labour. But I’m only exporting my labour in order to get those imports that make me richer. If I could make better beer than I could buy with the same (or smaller!) amount of labour then I would brew and not buy it. And the same is true about clothes, bread, the very house I live in and possibly even spliffs if the MS ever kicks in. I only import things because those imports are better and or cheaper than I can make myself. And I only export my labour in order to finance the imports I desire.  
Do note that it’s not actually countries that trade with each other it is individuals and or companies. So there’s no failure of composition here to insist that the same is true of trade in general. It is the imports that we desire and which make us richer. Exports are just the grunt work we have to do do finance them.  
And once we’ve got that settled then we can see the absurdity of trade negotiations like these at the WTO. For they have all been arguing about what people might be able to export! Country A says that we’ll not let you export your cheap and nutritious food to us unless you allow us to ship our software engineers to you in Country B. And country B says that they’ll not let in the engineers unless they have the right to ship the food. But it is the cheap and nutritious food that is the benefit to Country A, it is the work of the engineers which are of benefit to Country B. So why are they using the very thing that is of benefit to them as the bargaining chip?  
Quite: the only rational or sensible stance to take is of unilateral free trade. We’re going to let our citizens buy anything they want from whomever. Well, OK, we might have the occasional ban on personal nuclear weapons and the like. And if we have this unilateral free trade then of course there’s no point at all in sending politicians off to have a conference and try to reach a trade deal. For given that we’ve no restrictions on trade what is there to make a deal about?  
Given that the world does still think about exports being the benefit of trade today’s agreement is to be welcomed. But only to the extent that everyone involved has been wasting their time arguing about entirely the wrong thing. Given that imports are the benefit of trade we should all just stop imposing restrictions on what we may import and there, job done and no politicians, agreements, treaties or trade talks needed. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    China Will Make Or Break A Once-In-A-Generation Trade Deal
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Capital Flows 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Right-Wing Assault On Ex-Im Bank Threatens U.S. Exports, Jobs
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Loren Thompson 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    WCIT, TPP, Russia PNTR: Growing Recognition of Internet Freedom As A Trade Issue
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Ed Black 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    To Expand Commerce And Grow The Economy, Trade Freely With Europe
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Doug Bandow 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2013/12/07/the-wto-achieves-the-trade-deal-we-dont-need/