         

         


         
             Washington 
         
         | 
     
        12/13/2013 @ 1:00PM
             | 678 views
     
		 Is Affluenza Real? Ask Senator Elizabeth Warren And Other Experts 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
A 16 year old who  killed  four people while driving drunk after stealing alcohol from WalMart was sentenced to probation after his defense team argued he suffered from “affluenza” a malady that affects people who come from affluent families.  
Is affluenza real?  To answer that question I decided to research the term, and I found quite a few references to it in legal literature.  The consistent theme in the literature is that affluenza is not a disorder per se, but rather a term used to describe rampant consumerism or materialism (although some authors referred to it as a “disease” or “malady” with quotes to indicate skepticism about the technical nature of the term).  It’s also fascinating to note that most references to the term come from tax lawyers and estate planners.  
The most prominent author citing the concept of “affluenza” was none other than  U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren .  In a 2004  article in the Washington University Law Review, then Professor Warren noted (internal citations omitted):  

  Economist Robert Frank claims that America’s newfound “luxury fever” forces middle-class families “to finance their consumption increases largely by reduced savings and increased debt.”  Documentary filmmaker John de Graaf and Duke Economics Professor Thomas Naylor explain in Affluenza: The All-Consuming Epidemic, “It’s as if we Americans, despite our intentions, suffer from some kind of Willpower Deficiency Syndrome, a breakdown in affluenza immunity.”  They assert that Americans have a new character flaw–“the urge to splurge.”  Economist Juliet Schor echoes the theme, explaining that American families are buying “designer clothes, a microwave, restaurant meals, home and automobile air conditioning, and, of course, Michael Jordan’s ubiquitous athletic shoes, about which children and adults both display near-obsession.” 
 
Warren seems skeptical about the concept of affluenza, and consistent with her other writings believes that “affluenza” and rampant spending myths are barriers to regulation of the financial industry.  She concludes, “So long as Americans can be persuaded that families in financial trouble have only themselves to blame, there will be no demand to change anything. In order to get on with the difficult business of making America once again safe for middle class families, the Over-Consumption Myth must be laid to rest for good.”  
Warren isn’t the only author writing about affluenza.  In a tax planning guide, author Patricia M. Annino writes:  

  Paul Comstock, a noted author in the field of private foundations, coined the phrase: “Affluenza” for a malady common to children of affluent families. This Affluenza is characterized by one or more of the following symptoms: distorted view of money; lack of connection between work and reward; lack of self-discipline; lack of motivation; guilt; low self esteem; and feelings of incompetence. 
 
Joel Dobris , a professor of law at UC Davis School of Law wrote in a law review  article :  

  Merrill Lynch, in particular, would have its customers believe that trusts, with their perceived magic powers, are capable of curing “affluenza.” Affluenza is a “disease” that strikes when the earned millions of middle-class parents turn good bourgeois children into wastrels. 
 
A  PBS special  that aired in 1997, entitled “Escape from Affluenza” described the phenomenon as a “consumer chase” and “an epidemic of stress, waste, overconsumption and environmental decay.”  
Daniel Farber, a law professor at Berkeley wrote in a Vanderbilt Law Review  article  

  Jessie H. O’Neill, a psychotherapist, defines affluenza as: The collective addictions, character flaws, psychological wounds, neuroses, and behavioral disorders caused or exacerbated by the presence of, or desire for money/wealth . . . . In individuals, it takes the form of a dysfunctional or unhealthy relationship with money, regardless of one’s socio-economic level. It manifests as behaviors resulting from a preoccupation with–or imbalance around–the money in our lives. 
 
Edward J. Beckwith  a lawyer at Baker and Hostetler cited the concept in a 2001 estate planning presentation entitled “Donor Involved Philanthropy- Charitable Donor Advised Funds: Opportunities Risks and Alternatives” he wrote:  

  Children of affluent families are prone to a malady that some have referred to as “affluenza.” [citing Paul Comstock]  It has been noted that this condition is characterized by one or more of the following symptoms:  
   
   Distorted view of money;  
   Lack of connection between work and reward;  
   Lack of self-discipline;  
   Lack of motivation;  
   Guilt;  
   Low self-esteem; and  
   Feelings of incompetence.  
   
 
Lucy Marsh  connected the concept of affluenza to “trust fund babies” stating in a footnote in her article  The Demise of Dynasty Trusts: Returning The Wealth To The Family :  

  Too much unearned income can have a negative impact on productivity. Some studies suggest that individuals who inherit large sums of money are more likely to leave the labor force. Psychological costs, such as substance abuse, anxiety, and depression, also are associated with being a child of wealthy parents. Receiving large unconditional bequests could compound these psychological costs. “Affluenza,” a term “coined to describe an epidemic of over-consumption and its often negative effects on children-alienation, laziness, arrogance and low self esteem,” is not merely a hypothetical problem. 
 
All told, the bulk of the legal literature referencing affluenza does so as a means to provide guidance to financial planners and others when dealing with trusts, inheritance and other transfers of wealth.  
Gregory S. McNeal is a professor specializing in law and public policy.  You can follow him on Twitter @GregoryMcNeal . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    After Death Your Facebook Account May Become The Subject Of A Lawsuit
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Greg McNeal 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Private Lobbyists Earning Taxpayer Funded Pensions And Healthcare
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Greg McNeal 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    IRS Violated Procedures, Spent Millions On Conferences, Failed To Track Expenses And Paid Bonuses To Event Planners
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Greg McNeal 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/gregorymcneal/2013/12/13/is-affluenza-real-ask-senator-elizabeth-warren-and-other-experts/