         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/07/2013 @ 8:22AM
             | 159 views
     
		 Jaron Lanier's Absurd Plan To Turn The US Into Greece 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Certain aspects of a plan to turn the US into Greece might be welcomed: I like the Mediterranean lifestyle and climate myself for example. But Jaron Lanier appears to be planning to turn the US economy into the Greek one which doesn’t strike me as that much of a good idea somehow. It’s this little bit of his latest book that troubles me  so much :  

  Well, there’s a lot of ways. I mean, one of the issues is that in a market society, a middle class has always required some little artificial help to keep going. There’s always academic tenure, or a taxi medallion, or a cosmetology license, or a pension. There’s often some kind of license or some kind of ratcheting scheme that allows people to keep their middle-class status. 
 
This is the sort of economy that Adam Smith spent so much time raging at. It’s the medieval guilds all over again and it is this that is one of the  brakes  on the US economy currently, not one of the advantages. For think through what it is that is being done here. We are artificially reducing the number of people who can drive a taxi or practice cosmetology: this in turn raises the price to consumers of these things. Yes, this does indeed raise the incomes of those who own such assets, the medallion or the licence. But it does so by taking money from two groups. Firstly, by taking more money than is necessary from consumers and secondly by entirely stiffing those who would love to offer the services but don’t have enough capital to get the pieces of paper.  
Raising the incomes of the middle class by gouging consumers and stiffing would be members of the middle class just doesn’t sound like a great plan to me, as I’ve said before.  
Then today I see a great piece about what’s wrong with the  Greek economy :  

  The effects on the ground are easy to spot. It’s impossible, for instance, to find a profession in Greece that isn’t sheltered from competition, despite numerous attempts to liberalize services. Why? The answer was given by Poul Thomsen, the head of the  International  Monetary Fund’s mission in Greece, in an interview last month with Kathimerini: “Many professions have not yet been touched, and even where legal restrictions have been lifted, new administrative or other barriers often crop up.”  
  Another example of the superficiality of Greece’s recent reforms are the persistent barriers to entry in several key sectors. These restrictions essentially protect cartels, hindering competition and “keeping consumer prices in Greece much higher than in most other EU countries for many goods,” as the OECD puts it. 
 
That’s Lanier’s plan, isn’t it? To cocoon the extant middles classes from any competition through licences and permits. And that’s what actually happens in Greece (and Italy suffers from much the same problem too). So we can indeed say that Lanier’s plan is to turn the US economy into a copy of the Greek economy.  
Which, given that the Greek economy has shrunk by some 25% in the past few years, the majority of the young are now unemployed and so on, doesn’t really sound like all that clever a plan to me.  
If you prefer to think about Lanier’s economy as being akin to the guild one railed against by Adam Smith (which it is akin to) then perhaps we could create the tagline “Forward to the Middle Ages” for it? 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Jaron Lanier Really Needs To Understand Some Basic Economics
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tim Worstall 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Jaron Lanier: How To Fix an Internet Economy
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Anthony Wing Kosner 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    Jaron Lanier's 'Who Owns The Future?' What On Earth Is This Guy Talking About?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Tim Worstall 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2013/12/07/jaron-laniers-absurd-plan-to-turn-the-us-into-greece/