         

         


         
             Entrepreneurs 
         
         | 
     
        12/07/2013 @ 6:05AM
             | 699 views
     
		 Enough Thinking! It Is Time To Start Moving Toward Your Goals 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Sometimes art captures an idea perfectly. Let’s use a snippet from the musical  A Chorus Line  to prove why action trumps everything if you want to be successful.  
Cassie, a great dancer on Broadway, was destined for stardom in Hollywood according to all the hype surrounding her career.  
Well, it hasn’t worked out that way she explains, as she recalls her days trying to become an actress.  
Oh, sure [I worked a bit.] A rotten part in a so-so film, a part that ended up getting cut, thank God. I was a go-go dancer in a TV movie of the week. Let’s see. Oh yeah, commercials. I almost got to squeeze a roll of toilet paper but I lost out in the finals. Isn’t’ that something? Seventeen years in the  business  and I end up flunking toilet paper squeezing? And I was a dancing Band-Aid. That was fun.  
As for the rest of time in Hollywood? “We had an earthquake… and I got a terrific tan.  
She is telling all this to Zach, the director who is auditioning dancers who will appear in the chorus of his new musical.  
Cassie would like to be one of them. Zach tries to talk her out of it, saying it is beneath her and Cassie’s response is: “God, I’m a dancer, a dancer dances!”  
That statement sums up perfectly why you need to get underway, if anything is going to happen.  
   
A dancer does indeed dance. She doesn’t sit around all day and think about dancing; or just read about dancing or only talk about dancing.  
She can do all those things, of course. But she has nothing to show for it, unless she dances.  
Until she takes action (by dancing) nothing happens—and we would argue, she isn’t a dancer.  
It’s no different for you.  
You can talk about what a great idea you have for a new business venture. (And indeed it might be great.)  
Or you could go on with great passion about the idea you think would be perfect for the community.  
Or you could bore your friends to tears with the way to reform whatever it is that is your pet bug-a-boo  
But unless you do something—or something happens as a result of all that talking/thinking/discussing—you haven’t accomplished a thing. You (apparently) have the desire, but that’s all you have.  
You need to take action.  
Start!  
###  
Paul B. Brown is co-author of  Just Start  published by Harvard  Business  Review Press.   
Please note his blog appears every Sunday and Wednesday, with the occasional extra post like today.   
Click on the “Following” button to get every new blog post as soon as its goes live.  





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The Biggest Failure Of All? Never Trying
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul B. Brown 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    The 3 Things You Must Do, Before Starting Anything New
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul B. Brown 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Agility: The New Currency of Growth
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Mike Maddock 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    You Probably Need A Lot Less Money Than You Think To Get Underway
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul B. Brown 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/actiontrumpseverything/2013/12/07/enough-thinking-it-is-time-to-start-moving-toward-your-goal-2/