         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 11:29PM
             | 477 views
     
		 Should You Be Thinking More About The Customer... Or Less? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
“The customer is always king” has long been a time-honored business adage.  Even  Peter Drucker , the most renowned management thinker of the 20th century, was probably best known for advocating a consumer-centric approach.  
So I probably shouldn’t have been surprised that, when I said in a  recent post  that  creating, delivering and capturing value  are at the heart of any viable business model, several commenters felt the need to correct me.  “You always start with the customer,” they said.  
Forget about the fact that “creating, delivering and capturing value” implies that value is created for someone—and who, if not a customer?  The truth is that  a successful business must balance the needs of a variety of stakeholders. Focusing on customers to the exclusion of everyone and everything else can kill a business just as easily as neglect.  
Creating A Customer  
The idea that a business is made up of more than customers seems so simple that it should be obvious.  Yet consumer advocacy has become so fashionable lately that it has become regarded as beyond question, no matter how extreme. Any deviation from orthodoxy is judged apostasy.  
I think a lot of the confusion stems from a misunderstanding of what Drucker actually said, which was:  

  Because the purpose of business is to create a customer, the business enterprise has two–and only two–basic functions: marketing and innovation. Marketing and innovation produce results; all the rest are costs. 
 
That’s quite different than an obsession for customers to the exclusion of everything else.  It was, in fact, an attack on the production obsessed management practices of an earlier age.  What Drucker was really saying was that managers should focus on creating value rather than merely output.  
And, as it turns out, many successful innovators have been positively derisive about listening to customers.  Henry Ford  reportedly said that if he asked people what they wanted, they would have said “a faster horse.”  Steve Jobs  didn’t think customers knew what they want until they saw it.  
The truth is that nobody starts a business thinking about the customer.  People start businesses thinking about their dreams.  Some want to create technology that will change the world, others think they can make the best pizza in town and still others simply seek financial independence for their family.  
The Stupidity of Crowds  
There’s a reason why people like Henry Ford and  Steve jobs  don’t like listening to customers—customers are a crowd and  crowds are often stupid .  They usually represent the conventional wisdom of the present, rather than the possibilities of the future and following them often leads to mediocrity, not excellence.  
Even worse, sometimes  crowds are reflexive , feeding off themselves.  That’s when they become dangerous, creating booms and busts, fads and one-hit wonders.  Blindly following trends  is more likely to lead to strategic confusion than a solid, profitable business.  
That’s why truly visionary entrepreneurs make their fortune from  betting against the crowd .  They create something new, something nobody is asking for because they’ve never seen it before.  It’s difficult to “start with the customer” when one doesn’t exist yet.  
So it shouldn’t be surprising that most great entrepreneurs have big egos. They start businesses to aggrandize themselves and there’s nothing wrong with that.  People who set out to achieve great things usually find others to share their dreams.  
Which Consumer?  
In  Brick By Brick , Wharton Professor  David Robertson  tells the story of the fall and rise of Lego, one of the world’s great consumer products.  Strangely enough, its problems started not by ignoring customers, but by trying to serve more of them.  
In the late 90’s, all of the consumer experts were pointing to the rise in electronic games.  Lego, a low-tech building toy, seemed irrelevant.  With all the gizmos and doodads on the market, who would want to play with inert plastic bricks?  So Lego moved quickly to expand their horizons.  
It was a disaster.  Most of the new products bombed and the company lost a ton of money.  Relief only came when they started ignoring most customers, focused on the ones who liked building toys and put in reasonable cost controls and profitability targets. Lego, after all, only needs to sell to a small slice of consumers in order to be wildly successful.  
That’s the problem with using customers as an exclusive lens, it’s basically a license to do anything.  There are so many people who want so many things that treating them as a coherent entity is nonsensical.  
The Mission Driven Organization  
Great businesses businesses are not built by solely thinking about the consumer, but by creating a compelling mission that aligns consumers, employees, shareholders and communities.  It is through forging a unity of purpose that a culture of excellence emerges.  
And that’s the irony of running a customer centric business:  it doesn’t start with the customer, but with building an organization—including people, processes and practices— that are capable of serving the customer well.  
Take a look at the  world’s most valuable brands  and it becomes obvious that what sets them apart is their commitment to excellence, which goes far beyond devotion to the consumer or any other stakeholder.  It comes from a firm belief in the soul of the enterprise and an unshakeable faith that the task at hand is one worth doing.  
Consumers, after all, are not served by mere good will, but by developing the means to meet their needs and desires.  
***  

  




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Why Success Often Breeds Failure
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Greg Satell 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Apple Dominates List Of The World's Most Valuable Brands
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Kurt Badenhausen 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How To Market In A Digital Age
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Greg Satell 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/gregsatell/2013/12/06/should-you-be-thinking-more-about-the-customer-or-less/