         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 10:13PM
             | 336 views
     
		 Cano's Departure And A Bruised Ego Could Be An Unlikely Impetus For The Yankees 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

   
After a season marred by devastating injuries and an endless array of controversies involving  Alex Rodriguez , the New York Yankees have aggressively pursued this off season’s crop of desirable free agents in an attempt to deftly restore the franchise to its customary prominence within the baseball hierarchy. As the ball club wallowed in mediocrity and preached a desire to adhere to the self-imposed $189 million payroll for the 2014 season, the Boston Red Sox had risen from the ashes and won another World Series. Under the leadership of Ben Cherington, the Red Sox had orchestrated a historic reversal of fortunes over the course of one season by using a savvy business model that eerily resembled the constitution of the 1996 Yankees.  
 
   
 
Instead of having a perennial all star at every position, the Red Sox had implemented a strategy that involved reliable role players, homegrown talent and reasonably priced free agent acquisitions. Also, they had placed an emphasis on team chemistry and camaraderie that was all but nonexistent under Bobby Valentine’s brief tenure as the 45 th  manager of the Red Sox in 2012. John Farrell’s Red Sox willingly embraced a blue collar mentality that was personified by outrageous facial hair, tattoos and a fun loving spirit.  
The 2013 Yankees finished the season with a disappointing 85 victories. The last time the Yankees had won less than 85 games was 1995. The conclusion of the eighth work stoppage in baseball history forced the Yankees to begin the regular season in late April and only play 145 games. Last season’s .525 winning percentage was the lowest the Yankees have achieved since 1992. Besides a .469 winning percentage and finishing in fourth place in the American League East, pitcher Melido Perez had the highest Wins Above Replacement (WAR) for any ball player on the Yankees at 6.0.  
Many felt that 2014 would be a transition year for the Yankees in preparation for future spending frenzies on elite free agents such as Clayton Kershaw (2015) or Mike Trout (2017). Besides an earnest attempt at re-signing Robinson Cano, it seemed as if the Yankees also wanted to reset the competitive balance tax penalty from 50% to 17.5%. However, a third place finish in the American League East and the manner in which the Red Sox had won their third world championship in the 21 st  century has caused the Yankees to revert to old habits. However, the Yankees didn’t succumb to the demands from Cano’s representatives in his quest to become another $200 million ball player.  
Without question, the Yankees have significant matters of concern that need to be addressed in an expeditious manner. Cano’s latest decision to play the next decade of his career in the Pacific Northwest has only intensified the scrutiny the Yankees will face as the Winter Meetings begin in a matter of days. To make matters worse, the Yankees are dealing with a 7.42% decline in attendance from this past season as well as a disturbing decline of over 30% in viewership of games on the YES Network.  
The recent acquisitions of Brian McCann and Jacoby Ellsbury are intriguing and perplexing at the same time. It seems as if the Yankees are trying diligently to demonstrate fiscal restraint in some cases, but are also willing to give an injury-plagued 30 year old ball player the third highest contract for an outfielder in baseball history. The Yankees have developed a time tested blueprint when courting high profile free agents. However, they have also struggled when attempting to re-sign their own ball players and through the arbitration process. Previous negotiations with the likes of  Derek Jeter , Alex Rodriguez and Andy Pettitte had taken on a tone that some might consider being contentious in nature. Even Don Mattingly experienced indignities from George Steinbrenner after winning an arbitrator’s ruling in 1987.    
It appears as if the Yankees had drawn a proverbial line in the sand and wouldn’t exceed seven years in length and $170 million for Cano’s services. Cano is undoubtedly an immensely gifted ball player that many believed would spend his entire career in pinstripes. While the Yankees’ offer was overly generous and exceeded Dustin Pedroia’s record breaking contract for a second baseman by $60 million, it was nowhere near what the Seattle Mariners were desperately willing to invest in a ball player that has averaged a 7.5 WAR over the past four seasons.   
The Mariners made a bold decision in giving Cano the third largest contract in the history of baseball. He will be held to the same standards as any ball player that has signed a decade long contract. By virtue of his newfound wealth, Cano is now thrust into the dubious position of becoming the face of a franchise that is in desperate need of an identity. Many will now question if Cano can carry the daily burden of being the undisputed leader of a major league ball club as well as a catalyst that ignites a dormant and apathetic fan base. Cano is not only being paid for a .332 Batting Average on Balls in Play (BAbip) in the five American League West ball parks over 151 career games, but also to restore credibility and relevance to the Mariners. By no means is that an enviable task even at $242 million.  
Cano’s decision to part ways with the Yankees could be a blessing in disguise for the Steinbrenner family. Instead of witnessing the costly and painful decline of a decade long contract that could easily set a franchise back at least five years, the Yankees are now forced to adapt to the circumstances created by the Mariners. At the present moment, the Yankees are committed to approximately $117 million for nine ball players over the age of 30 in 2014. After including estimates for the pre-arbitration and the five arbitration eligible ball players as well as Ellsbury’s average annual value of $21.8 million, the Yankees could conceivably have a payroll within the $150 – $160 million range.  
The Yankees are on the verge of becoming a very dangerous franchise once again. As the baseball community descends upon Orlando for the Winter Meetings at the Swan and Dolphin Resort, the Yankees have two things going for them: money to spend thanks to Cano’s departure and a bruised ego. Don’t be surprised to see the Yankees make an immediate splash in the shadows of Walt Disney World as they aggressively retool in a similar manner as the Red Sox from last year.   
   
Wayne G. McDonnell, Jr., B.B.A., M.B.A. is a Clinical Associate Professor of Sports Management, NYU School of Continuing and Professional Studies (NYU-SCPS) Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management. Professor McDonnell is also a  Co-Director, Program Development and Special Initiatives for New York University’s Sports and Society Program.  He is a highly sought-after commentator and analyst on the game of baseball. McDonnell regularly appears on various television and radio programs including “Prime 9” on the MLB Network; coaches athletes as a private hitting and pitching instructor; and shares timely insights via the Twitter handle @wmcdonn25. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/waynemcdonnell/2013/12/06/canos-departure-and-a-bruised-ego-could-be-an-unlikely-impetus-for-the-yankees/