         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 9:50PM
             | 1,762 views
     
		 Bowling Green Could Lose Money With A MAC Championship Victory 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    4 comments, 4 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Update: Bowling Green won the MAC Championship over Northern Illinois by a score of 47-27, securing the school’s first MAC title since 1992. Though an incredible achievement for the Falcons, the victory will cost the school and its conference millions of dollars.  
At halftime of the MAC Championship, Bowling Green leads Northern Illinois by a score of 31-13. Falcons quarterback Matt Johnson is having a career night, outperforming NIU’ potential Heisman finalist, Jordan Lynch. A win would send the 9-3 Falcons to the GoDaddy.com Bowl, which would earn the MAC a $750,000 payout. Yet nice as that may be on paper, a win for Bowling Green would also lose millions for the school, the MAC and all of the non-Automatically Qualifying conferences.  
How that works: The non-AQ conferences, namely the MAC, WAC, Mountain West and Conference USA, ordinarily share a payout from the BCS worth around $14 million. But when the non-AQ conferences send a team to a BCS bowl, that payout doubles. This year’s payouts are around $14.25 million and $28.5 million. The non-AQ conferences can only send a team to a BCS bowl if one of their teams ends the regular season ranked ahead of a BCS-qualifying team team from an AQ conference (the AAC, ACC, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and SEC).  
At the moment, Northern Illinois is in position to make a BCS bowl for the second year in a row – last year the Huskies played Florida State in the Orange Bowl. In 2012, NIU finished ranked at No. 15, ahead of No. 21 Louisville. Northern Illinois is currently ranked No. 14, ahead of both UCF and Louisville, the AAC’s top two teams this season. But a loss tonight would drop NIU below UCF in the BCS rankings, meaning that the non-AQ conferences wouldn’t send a team to a BCS bowl, and in turn lose the extra $14.25 million payout.  
And given the way that money gets distributed, Bowling Green, Northern Illinois and the rest of the MAC would feel the biggest blow. The non-AQ conferences have a formula that determines how the BCS revenue is shared. Essentially, the BCS-qualifying team’s conference – the MAC, in this case – gets about 30% off the top, with the rest being divided according to how each non-AQ conference’s teams finish the year in the six computer rankings.  
Last year, that left the MAC with around $13.5 million from the BCS, or nearly half of the total payout. Across the conference’s 13 teams, that’s a little more than $1 million per school. It may not sound like much, especially when compared to financial juggernauts from the Big Ten and SEC, but for schools from smaller conferences like the MAC, that $1 million could be the difference between making and losing money.  
In fact, last year Bowling Green athletics reported a profit of just $1.3 million on revenue of $20.6 million. And that was  with the doubled BCS payout. Plenty of MAC teams lost money despite the increased BCS revenue. Should Bowling Green close out a victory tonight, that revenue shrinks drastically. It’s also worth noting that a Bowling Green win would diminish revenue to the other non-AQ conferences, though to a much lesser degree.  
For Bowling Green’s players, who don’t enjoy any of the potential payout, winning tonight is all that matters. But for the Bowling Green athletic department, and those of the other MAC schools, a Falcons win tonight would be very costly.  
Follow @ChrisSmith813 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Urban Meyer Has $4.2 Million On The Line In Big Ten Championship Game
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Chris Smith 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    How Do Brady Hoke And Will Muschamp Keep Their Jobs?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Chris Smith 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/chrissmith/2013/12/06/bowling-green-could-lose-money-with-a-mac-championship-victory/