         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 9:09PM
             | 9,707 views
     
		 World Cup Draw 2014 - The Winners, The Losers, The Ever Hopeful 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
The draw for the 2014 World Cup Finals was made earlier today. Things will change over the next seven months. Injuries, bust-ups, even managers being fired can and will significantly impact a country’s chances.  
Nonetheless, with 188 days until the opening game here is a quick rundown of the 32 countries, the groups and things to consider.  
Group A    
Brazil  – the host nation and the recipients of a terrific group draw. It is inconceivable that Brazil might not make the last 16 although having to face the runners up from a strong group B will offer a tough transition to the knock out stage.  
Croatia  – facing the host nation in the opening game of the 2014 World Cup Finals and a tough travel schedule makes this a very difficult draw. Croatia’s form took a nosedive during qualifying and if they are to qualify then new Coach Niko Kovač   will have to turn things around quickly come spring time.  
Mexico  – made heavy weather of qualifying in CONCACAF but hammered New Zealand in a two leg play off.  The potential is there for Mexico to make it to the last 16 but they will have to find a midfield that moves the ball more quickly and more decisively.  
Cameroon  – with Brazil the class of the group it will be one place available and 3 teams in contention. However, I can’t see it being Cameroon despite this appearance being a record for an African country of a seventh trip to the finals.  
Qualifiers: Brazil and Mexico  
Group B   
Spain  – there are legitimate questions about Spain as they attempt to win a fourth straight major international championship next summer. For the core of the team to play at such a consistently high level since winning the European Championship in 2008 is an achievement in itself. To now have to face Netherlands and Chile in the opening two games will be an immense test for a side that looked as if it was off the boil at last summer’s Confederations Cup Final. I can even see a reasonable scenario where Spain does not make it out of the group but nonetheless I think they will.  
Netherlands  – the runners up in 2010 but an embarrassingly early exit at Euro 2012 brought a change of coach. Louis van Gaal took over and Netherlands breezed through World Cup qualifying. We will hear plenty of Robin van Persie and his importance to the Netherlands but van Persie is not representative of a young squad, one presently based around home-based players. The ability to handle the occasion could be key to whether or not Netherlands progresses to the last 16.  
Chile  – a very tough draw but Chile will be treated with a healthy degree of respect and even a little fear by Spain and Netherlands. Chile will press like they did in 2010 under Marcelo Bielsa but perhaps not as frenetically. The group draw did not favor Chile but the schedule offers some hope. With Australia first up there is every chance that Chile will play Spain in match #2 with three points secure.  
Australia  – Should Australia just ask the pilot to keep the aircraft running? After all, there is a very strong chance that Australia will be the first team eliminated at the 2014 finals. The golden generation that did so well in 2006 has exceeded its “best buy” date and there is little in the way of reinforcements.  
Qualifiers: Spain and Chile  
Group C  
Colombia  – a favorable draw for the country that finished just two points behind South America group winners Argentina in qualifying. The appointment of Jose Pekerman was a key to Colombia qualifying for the first time since France 1998. He turned around a campaign that started very poorly into something that gained momentum and made Colombia a feared opponent once again. There are goals aplenty in this side but there are also legitimate concerns at the centre back positions. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/bobbymcmahon/2013/12/06/world-cup-draw-2014-the-winners-the-losers-the-ever-hopeful/