         

         


         
             Markets 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 3:19PM
             | 6,995 views
     
		 Bitcoin Market In Sharp Correction, What Is Next? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    15 comments, 9 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Some call Bitcoin the currency of the future. Others call Bitcoin a digitalmania.  
Which side is right?  
Only time can tell. Nonetheless, one thing is for sure: The digital currency is getting a great deal of buzz from users, politicians, and central bankers.  Yesterday, the University of Nicosia (Unic), the largest private university in Cyprus announced that it has received its first tuition payment using Bitcoin, from a student in South Africa. Two weeks ago Unic gave a double endorsement to the digital currency — by accepting it for tuition payments, and by creating a MOOC. According to Bitpay.com 12,000 businesses and charities accept Bitcoin.  
The growing acceptance of Bitcoin as a medium of exchange may perhaps explain why former U.S. congressman Ron Paul thinks it could be an  alternative  to the US dollar; and why Bank of America has a  price target  on the virtual currency.  
But central bankers seem to think otherwise.  
Yesterday, Bank of France gave a strong warning about the risks of the virtual currency. The People’s  Bank  made an even stronger case against the virtual currency — by banning financial institutions from conducting business in Bitcoins, by requiring that Internet sites register Bitcoin transactions with appropriate government agencies, and by educating the public of the risks of investing in Bitcoin.  
Today, China’s Internet leader Baidu  announced  that it would suspend the use of Bitcoin on its site,  causing a sharp correction  in the price of the virtual currency.  
The bottom line: Bitcoin is getting a great deal of buzz fueled by a tug of war between the public, politicians, and investment analysts who see some merit in the virtual currency, on the one side; and central bankers on the other, concerned about abuses of the currency; and the loss of seigniorage income.  
That’s why the currency is in for a rough ride. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/panosmourdoukoutas/2013/12/06/bitcoin-market-in-sharp-correction-what-is-next/