         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 8:19PM
             | 495 views
     
		 TED Women Shows 'Binders of Women' Not Needed To Find Talented Tech Thinkers 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
There were no “binders of women.”  

  
   Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg says after Learn In, she’s hearing from CEOs that more women are asking for raises and promotions (Photo: Marla Aufmuth via Ted) 
 
Just a mobile app and a roster of women entrepreneurs, business leaders and creative thinkers on stage and in the audience at  TED ’s Women’s conference in San Francisco yesterday who contradict the conventional wisdom  there aren’t any qualified women in tech — or in business in general — to serve on corporate boards or in top leadership roles in the U.S.  
Among the speakers: Jessica Matthews, co-founder of  Uncharted Play,  who skipped rope in high heels (think about that for a minute) to show off the power-generating capabilities of a new jump rope called the Pulse that’s based on the same principles behind the soccer ball she created for generating renewable energy. Called the Sockett, the 17-ounce soccer ball, which never deflates, can generate about three hours of lights from an LED after 30 minutes of play.  
Krista Donaldson, CEO of  D-Rev,  showed the prosthetic knee that she and her design team created to provide a low-cost option for the 80 percent of amputees around the world who can’t afford modern prosthetics, which start at $1,400 and can cost as much as $20,000. Priced at $80, the reMotion knee is now being worn by more than 5,000 people in 12 countries.  
Jane Chen talked about the design challenges in creating the  Embrace baby warmer  to serve as a sort of incubator for poor mothers in developing countries who are trying to save the 20 million low-birth weight and premature babies born each year. MIT Professor  Dava Newman  showed off the lightweight, flexible, pressure-sensitive spacesuit she and her team are developing for a mission to  Mars   Mars  — and which may also be used to help restore motion to children and adults with disabilities such as cerebral palsy.  
And then there was  Maggie Wilderotter , CEO of  Frontier Communications   Frontier Communications , and her older sister,  Denise Morrison , CEO of Campbell’s Soup. Two sisters, both CEOs of major companies who have started a foundation in New York to mentor professional women in their 20s to 40s. When they joined their respective companies, there were few women directors. Today, they said, Frontier and Campbell’s each boast five women on the board.  
If Twitter needs a list of potential other women candidates to add to its board (they announced their first female director yesterday after much criticism), they should just check  out the TED Women website.  
Facebook  COO Sheryl Sandberg, whose TED talk on the lack of women in business in  December 2010  was the impetus for her Lean In book, returned to the TED stage yesterday She talked about the reception to her message that businesses who fail to promote and attract women won’t be as successful as companies where there is diversity in the management team and on the board. “There’s been more dialogue. What matters is action,”  Sandberg said .  
“Everywhere I go, CEOs, mostly men, say to me, ‘You’re costing me so much money,” because women are asking for the raises and promotions they believe they deserve. “To them I say, I’m not sorry at all.”  





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    When it Comes To Landing A Top Job At Twitter, That Degree In French Literature Might Not Be So Worthless After All
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Connie Guglielmo 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/connieguglielmo/2013/12/06/ted-women-shows-binders-of-women-not-needed-to-find-talented-tech-thinkers/