         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 8:06PM
             | 1,462 views
     
		 5 Reasons Why Ohio State Will Be Picked Over Auburn In The National Championship Game 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Ohio State lines up against LSU in the BCS National Championship game (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Assume for the moment the favorites this weekend both win – Ohio State beats Michigan State and Auburn beats Missouri in their respective conference championship games. Those are big assumptions. Both could lose. But based on those assumptions, many will say Auburn would beat OSU in a head-to-head matchup. They will also say a 1-loss SEC team (Auburn) trumps an undefeated Big Ten team (OSU), especially when the Big Ten is so bad this year.  
But those logical arguments have a fatal flaw: They don’t cover the BCS decision making factors. There are three constituent parts to the votes: the computer rankings, the coaches’ poll and the Harris Interactive poll. When you examine each in context, their inherent biases and limitations, you will probably end up saying in tennis parlance, “advantage OSU”.  Here’s how:  
 
  Computer Ratings : From my understanding of the computer system and assumptions it would be nearly impossible for Auburn to jump over Ohio State.  Succinctly put, a team with weak wins, but is still undefeated trumps a one-loss team of better, but reasonably comparable competition. Ah the rule of relative comparability. The teams Auburn beat are better than the teams OSU beat. But that differential does not make up the difference between undefeated-ness and a loss.  
  Voting Blocks : Auburn’s Southern precinct pales in comparison to the Northeast and Midwest precincts of OSU. Michigan State has the best in class rush defense (70 yards per game allowed). Ohio State has one of the best running attacks in the nation and depends on it to win. Ohio St has the weakest schedule of the major conference championships, and Michigan State has not played against an elite offense all year. As Desmond Howard said on ESPN today, “Somebody might be exposed as a fraud Saturday night.” But because of regional biases, the lack of schedule strength is de-emphasized.  
  Generational Retroactivity of Tradition : More controversial is the impact of the OSU past reputation as a football power. Among those in the northeast and northwest, the OSU tradition means something – something worth a slight voting edge in the intangible recesses in the decision-making part of the brain. More importantly, the glory years of the Big Ten are still in the DNA of BCS voters. Think about it, more voters are connected with the regions that include OSU, and most of them are old – old enough to remember fondly the Big Ten formidability. And include the current corroborating fact that OSU has not lost in two years and is coached by the higher regarded coach.   
  The BCS Standings and the Harris Poll Component : Going into their respective games, OSU has a 0.027 advantage over Auburn in the BCS Standings. That’s a bigger advantage than you might think. Remember that one-third of the standings is based on the Harris Interactive Poll. This year’s Harris poll has 105 panelists. They include former coaches, players, administrators and current and former members of the media. The key word there is “former”, as in old enough to remember fondly the Ohio State tradition. The Harris poll is also self-described as a “statistically reliable representation of all 10 conferences and independent institutions.”  If there is a conference bias, I suspect it is that the SEC has beaten them all, and they privately would like to see some other conferences represented after such a long draught. Many of those conferences will remember that Michigan State won its last two bowl games under this Coach of the Year in the Big Ten, beating Georgia and TCU, respectively. So if OSU beats MSU, it will mean a little more than you might think. Those same people have probably watched OSU, and conclude that   
  Focus on The 5 th : This issue may become a moot point in a day. Auburn just may get beat by Missouri because Auburn’s Director of Athletics, and most others are arguing about if they are more deserving to be in the title game, not how to beat a very hungry 5 th  ranked team in country.  
 
So if Auburn wins impressively, and OSU barely beats MSU, the computer will still favor OSU. There will still be a two-thirds human component that has a majority of non-SEC voters. There will still be more Harris pollsters who have intangibles in their heads that include Buckeye tradition and recent success beyond this season. Those factors, right or wrong, lead me to believe: Advantage Ohio State.   
 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Is Michigan Football Trending Down?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Roger Groves 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Top 10 Lessons From Ohio State's Tattoo-Gate
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Roger Groves 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/rogergroves/2013/12/06/5-reasons-why-ohio-state-will-be-picked-over-auburn-in-the-national-championship-game/