         

         


         
             Forbes Asia 
         
         | 
     
        12/06/2013 @ 6:46PM
             | 1,305 views
     
		 After Starbucks, China's National Broadcaster Targets Foreign Auto Makers 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    1 comments, 0 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
After an unsuccessful attempt to hammer  Starbucks   Starbucks ’ pricey offering in the Chinese market, China’s state broadcaster is now turning to foreign automobile producers on similar ground. A CCTV program aired on Wednesday blamed higher repair costs of imported cars to foreign monopoly over auto parts sales channel.  
Using Jaguar Land Rover, Subaru and  Audi   Audi  as examples, the show has found that the 4S stores for these brands often suggest replacement over repair, and may charge twice as much for auto parts than in the black market.  
The program acknowledged that China’s high tariffs contributed to the costs, but decided that a Chinese regulation allowing foreign auto makers to designate a “sole agent”, with the exclusive right to select distributors in China, was at the bottom of the trouble.  
“Foreign companies do not permit their auto parts to circulate at various Chinese auto parts shops. They can only be replaced at 4S stores.” the program said, “The provision easily gives auto makers the power to monopolize the Chinese market and raise prices of auto parts as they wish.” In August, the Ministry of Commerce revealed that the much-debated regulation is now under revision.  
In response, Jaguar Land Rover declared that “its pricing was in line with Chinese regulations,” Reuters reported. There has been no official response from Subaru or Audi.  
The show came after a CCTV program in October accusing Starbucks of reaping fattier profits in China by charging Chinese customers higher prices. The program put the state television under intense media fire and online criticism for straying from societal grief to highlight such a minuscule issue. The auto program has not garnered nearly as much attention, though those who responded on Weibo do not seem to buy the CCTV argument. Instead they have expressed frustration at China’s trade barriers and lack of competitiveness of domestic brands.  
The national broadcaster has previously picked on  Apple   Apple , Samsung and KFC, among other global trotters with a heavy presence in China. Its investigation into Apple’s warranty policies has prompted CEO Tim Cook to issue an apology earlier this year.  
The slew of negative publicity is commonly seen as an orchestrated attempt to curb foreign competition and protect domestic players by the Chinese government. However, Kathy Bloomgarden, CEO of public relations firm Ruder Finn which has expanded aggressively in China,  offers a contrarian view. She believes that it is part of a broader campaign to bring foreign companies’ attention back to values and good governance. The question that foreign brands should ask themselves, says Bloomgarden, is “whether we are bringing worthwhile products and services to the Chinese population, who admire the high quality, commitment and dedication in the real and genuine way.” 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Updated: Critique Of Starbucks By China's State Broadcaster Backfires
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Heng Shao 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/hengshao/2013/12/06/after-starbucks-chinas-national-broadcaster-targets-foreign-auto-makers/