	 Portugal passes latest austerity budget 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Austerity measures have been tough for countries like Portugal, with big cuts in public spending 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Portugal struggles under weight of austerity 

		 


											




	


	





	 Eurozone economic growth slows 

		 


											




	


	





	 Portugal passes latest bailout test 

		 


											 
	 
                       Portugal is set for another tough year after its government approved a new set of budget measures. 
         The country is struggling to come back to financial health and meet the terms of an international bailout. 
         It has now passed another set of spending cuts, which face strong opposition from workers who will be directly affected. 
         They also face a court challenge that, if successful, could derail Portugal s goal of exiting the bailout in 2014. 
         Government workers in particular will be hit by the action which will give Portugal a third year of austerity. 
   Cuts 
	       Public employees earning more than 675 euros  (£565, $915) a month will see their pay cut by between 2.5-12%, pensions above a certain amount will be cut by 10% and working hours raised from 35 to 40 hours a week.  
         They will also lose three days  holiday a year.  
         About 80% of the government workforce, or some 600,000 workers, will be affected. 
         Thousands of workers protested outside the parliamentary building during the vote. 
         Lisbon needs to cut the budget deficit to 4% of economic output from this year s 5.5%.  
   Burden 
	       Portugal s coalition government is trying to avoid asking international lenders, including the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund for a second bailout.  
         Measures, including spending cuts and higher taxes, have hit living standards in the country and pushed unemployment to above 16%. 
         In 2011, Portugal - on the brink of going bust - received a 78bn euro (£65.3bn, $105bn) rescue. 
         Its finance minister, Maria Luis Albuquerque, said there was no choice but to take further steps to curb government spending:  Unfortunately we are still in a situation of crisis and emergency which demands exceptional measures. 
         The main Socialist Party opposition leader, Antonio Jose Seguro, said the budget went too far:  [This] overburdens the Portuguese with yet more sacrifices. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25112393#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa