         

         


         
             Media  &  Entertainment 
         
         | 
     
        12/11/2013 @ 1:43PM
             | 1 view
     
		 Snapchat: 'Your Ad Here' 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Snapchat (Image by None via CrunchBase) 
   
 
In the good old days magazine salespeople would show prospective advertisers a copy of their magazine with a headline in a blank ad space reading “Your Ad Here” to show off the magazine’s irresistible, ad-friendly content.  
 
In the good  new  days of the Internet and mobile, many startups don’t have salespeople, because they don’t have business models that include revenue.  YouTube, Twitter, Pinterst, Instagram, and  Snapchat ’s strategy has been to build traffic and then figure out how to monetize it.  
That strategy seems to work, because in the past month  Twitter had an IPO that valued it at $31.3 billion; Instagram was purchased by  Facebook  for $1 billion in April, 2012; and Snapchat’s founders turned down a $3 billion offer from Facebook this past month.  
 
In October Snapchat had 26 million users sending 350 million photos a day, according to a Pew study and reported by  J.J. Colao on Forbes.com .   Kara Swisher posted on  AllThingsD in October that that Snapchat was considering a funding round that would value it at $3.5 billion, which would explain why founders  Evan Spiegel  and Bobby Murphy turned down the $3 billion offer from Facebook.  Furthermore, the  Wall Street Journa l reported that “Chinese e-commerce giant TenCent Holdings had offered to lead an investment that would value two-year-old Snapchat at $4 billion.”  
 
So, $3, $3.5, or $4 billion is a lot of money for a company that is two years old and has no revenue.  Why is Snapchat’s value so high?  Most likely because potential buyers and the company’s founders assume that its traffic can be monetized by means of advertising – “Your Ad Here.”  
 
But Snapchat’s users are primarily teens and adults under 30 who crave the privacy that Snapchat offers.  Snapchat promises that it doesn’t track what users do, and because of this perceived privacy, it is estimated that up to half of the photo posts are of exhibitionists in various states of undress or nude.  
 
On Snapchat users can post photos and set an expiration time of from one to ten seconds after which the photos are deleted from the service’s servers.  Throngs of teens and young people under 30 are deserting Facebook and other social networks, where privacy is disappearing and where their parents, grandparents, college admission offices, and prospective employers can easily snoop.  They are migrating to Snapchat, where they can post quick, naughty, ephemeral flashes of themselves.  The opportunity for risk-free, private (except for trusted friends), naughty behavior is simply too tempting to resist.  
 
But will advertisers who seek band-safe content want their ad in that environment?  Oprah had to change the format for her TV talk show because major advertisers who wanted a family- friendly and brand-safe environment put her and other watch-them–fight formats such as Jerry Springer on a do-not-advertise blacklist.  
 
For digital advertising, especially ads bought programmatically, companies such as Proximic scrape billions of web and mobile sites daily and rate them according to some sort of brand-safe algorithm and sell this service to advertisers who are paranoid about their ads appearing on porn and other sites with non-brand-safe environments.  
 
As more and more digital advertising is bought and sold on the basis of real-time-bidding ( RTB ) and programmatic trading, having a brand-safe environment will become a vital dimension in selling digital ads.  And  some estimates  indicate that by 2017, more than 50 percent of all digital inventory will be sold via RTB.  
 
Will the world’s largest advertiser, P G, and other content-sensitive advertisers want their ads to appear in Snapchat’s potentially racy environment?  Most possibly not, which will make monetizing Sanpchat’s traffic more difficult than potential investors envision.  Snapchat might well find it difficult to credibly tout “Your Ad Here.”  
 
The Media Curmudgeon (Charles Warner) teaches in the graduate Media Management Program at The New School and is the author of  Media Selling, 4 th  Edition.  
 
 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Can Twitter Save TV? (And Can TV Save Twitter?)
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Jeff Bercovici 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Why Google Sells More Than Newspapers, Magazines
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Charles Warner 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/charleswarner/2013/12/11/snapchat-your-ad-here/