         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/11/2013 @ 1:40PM
             | 11 views
     
		 Artisanal Manufacturing: Creating Jobs To Produce Things In America Again 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Guest post by Randy Komisar, partner at venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield   Byers  
In the 1950s, one third of the American workforce was employed in the manufacturing industry; the economy not only supported manufacturing jobs, it thrived on the power of this sector. Since then, U.S. manufacturing has been in a sharp decline as overseas production has become the dominant choice for American companies. Since 2000, the U.S. has seen 5.8 million manufacturing jobs shift overseas.  
Today there remain just 12 million manufacturing workers in the United States who earn a living for their households. Jobs in the U.S. production economy are being lost to digital technologies favoring jobs in the creation economy—designers, marketers, engineers, technologists and the like. In many industries, the output of 1,000 workers can be done by one machine, while in other cases the cost of domestic labor cannot compete with what exists overseas.  
So how can we reverse the trend and start making things in America again?  
What we need is a new type of company—called an artisanal manufacturer—based on principles that promote economic prosperity, enliven local communities, and offer customers a rewarding experience based on quality and value. The first phase of artisanal manufacturing has typically been very small scale, localized and expensive. Today a new type of artisanal manufacturer is on the verge of carving out a meaningful place in the market, offering broader access to a level of quality that can’t be achieved by traditional mass-scale businesses.  
New artisanal manufacturing companies take advantage of changing consumer dynamics and developing technologies in order to create value in the market, achieve long-term sustainability and build the capacity to grow in aggregate to a scale significant enough to become a meaningful source of 21st century production jobs.  
The Business of Scale  
For most traditional manufacturers, the guiding principles of building a business are to scale rapidly, reduce costs, and accelerate profits. The manufacturing transformation of the past 25 years has had a dramatic impact, cutting out every facet of inefficiency in production. This model has had exceptional results, enabling growth of some of the world’s largest companies.  
A common tenet of ‘scale businesses’ is to cut costs to the extent that customers will accept lower quality products, poorer service, and less convenience. From this perspective, not only is job creation a low priority, it can be a liability. Together, developments in technology and the scale-driven mentality have been major contributors to the decline of an entire class of jobs. As the cost of labor rises, companies built to scale will almost always take advantage of the opportunity to integrate labor-reducing technologies at the expense of the worker, often driving down quality and value for the consumer.  
The Power of the Consumer  
Never before have consumers had so much power to direct their dollars toward brands that offer the things they value. The internet and compatible technologies are enabling an unprecedented level of transparency and consumers are increasingly informed about what their alternatives are when making purchasing decisions. Moreover, a cultural shift toward social shopping and the remarkable capacity of social media to build brand awareness is making it possible for companies to get more traction while investing less in marketing.  
The result of this will be a stripping down of the things consumers don’t care about and greater access to the things that matter. This “atomization” of demand means people buy the single song, not the album. Traditional retailers are built to extract value from consumers in order to pay for the massive overheads of stores and high budget marketing campaigns. Artisanal manufacturing companies have the capacity to create value for customers by offering more of what they want and less of what they don’t.  
Together the trend toward hyper-connectivity and the demand for better options are creating the potential for scale in artisanal manufacturing.  
A New Alternative: Rethinking Scale in America  
What if we could create an alternative to traditional scale businesses that would put the customer first, focus on quality and actually create jobs and economic growth in the communities the businesses serve? By borrowing from the values that made America a leader in manufacturing back in the 1950s, while driving innovation forward with today’s technologies, artisanal manufacturing has the power to do this.  
Artisanal Manufacturing  
The term ‘artisanal manufacturing’ can be used to describe the production of quality products by skilled workers, prioritizing customer value over cheap prices. With this approach, it is impossible to produce goods without involving dedicated human hands in the process. 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How The Maker Movement Is Reinventing Retail
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Adrienne Burke 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



	 


         
        	 Photos:  In Pictures: 10 Industrial Design Trends You Can't Ignore
         


	 



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Etsy CEO Chad Dickerson on Maker Culture
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Adam Ludwig 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/bruceupbin/2013/12/11/artisanal-manufacturing-creating-jobs-to-produce-things-in-america-again/