         

         


         
             Business 
         
         | 
     
        12/11/2013 @ 1:28PM
             | 63 views
     
		 Big Media Companies Are Paving The Way For You To Cut The Cord 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Companies like Aereo have media companies in a tizzy because they make it easier for viewers to watch what they want without cable. At one point earlier this year, two major networks threatened  to go off the air because of the service. Cable and content companies seem terrified that the status quo could soon disappear as more people move to cut the cable cord and younger people become customers who never had a cord in the first place.  
But it turns out at that at the same time, they are quietly making plans to thrive in such a world. At this week’s  UBS   UBS  Global Media Conference, both  Viacom   Viacom  and Disney said they were preparing to make deals with virtual MVPDs.  
Don’t get hung up on the wonky jargon there. A virtual MVPD (multi-channel video programming distributor) is essentially a cable or satellite company. A virtual one is a company that offers the same kind of service but online. So imagine if instead of paying  Time Warner   Time Warner  for your cable, you paid the company to access its service over the Internet.  
Viacom CEO Philippe Dauman  told the New York crowd  that he expects virtual cable companies to launch this year. The next day Disney Chief Financial Office Jay Rasulo said: ( via Seeking Alpha )  

  First let me start by saying that, I think the virtual MVPD is coming. I don’t if it’s this year. It’s certainly coming and we could certainly be happy to license our content to a virtual MVPD. I think that they would, from our perspective, have to buy the package of services that we sell. They would have to go out and do that with other media companies and put together something that looks very much like the existing MVPD offers. And at that time I think we would be very happy to have another entrant into the distribution side. 
 
Disney is already experimenting on this front with services like Watch  ESPN   ESPN  and Watch Disney Channel. Both services let you watch live TV online but require that you log in through a cable company.  
No one has yet announced a real virtual MVPD service. Richard Greenfield, of BTIG Research, says Verizon might be the first to break the ice. The company is reportedly considering buying  Intel's   Intel's  OnCue service, a virtual MVPD the chip company was in the process of building. (You can read Greenfield’s whole report  here , subscription required.)  
If Verizon does get into the virtual MVPD game, it could trigger other companies, like  Comcast   Comcast , to launch their own offerings. A Comcast virtual MVPD would give the cable company a national footprint and keep customers chained to its broadband offering.  
A virtual cable offering would likely be cheaper than its traditional counterpart. Greenfield says this risks launching a “race to the bottom” for cable companies in terms of pricing. But if virtual MVPD’s start launching next year, a Comcast could benefit by being the first player into the game.  
Follow me on Twitter at  DorothyatForbes .  
 
 





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    CBS Is Kicking Cable's Butt
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Dorothy Pomerantz 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Aereo Wins Yet Another Battle Against Broadcasters
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     J.J. Colao 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Cable TV Model Not Just Unpopular But Unsustainable
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Amadou Diallo 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/dorothypomerantz/2013/12/11/big-media-companies-are-paving-the-way-for-you-to-cut-the-cord/