

* Asian shares subdued after soft Wall St, Nikkei steadies 
* Strong U.S. jobs numbers heighten Fed angst ahead of
payrolls * Dollar gets some support from higher Treasury yields By  Wayne Cole SYDNEY, Dec 5 (Reuters) - Asian markets were off to a
nervous start on Thursday as never- ending speculation about the
fate of U.S. stimulus lifted bond yields, while Japanese shares
tried to find their footing after taking a spill. After suffering the biggest one-day fall in six weeks on
Wednesday, the Nikkei was up 0.1 percent in early trade
thanks in part to demand from foreign brokers. Offshore funds certainly seem to be cheering for the market.
Foreigners bought a net 368 billion yen worth of Japanese shares
in the week through Nov. 30, on top of 709 billion yen in the
week before that. Caution ruled elsewhere with MSCI's broadest index of
Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan essentially
flat, as was South Korea's Kospi. There was nothing but indecision out of Wall Street where
the Dow Jones industrial average edged down 0.16 percent,
while the S  500 eased 0.13 percent. Shares had taken a hit after a strong reading on private
hiring led to speculation that payrolls could also be upbeat and
perhaps hasten the day when the Federal Reserve starts trimming
its asset buying. Other data on services and housing was more mixed, but the
risk was enough to send 10-year Treasury yields about 7 basis
points higher on Wednesday to 2.84 percent. Ironically, a sustained increase in long-term yields is
exactly what the Fed is trying to avoid, so the rise argues
against a start of tapering at this month's policy meeting. ECB LOOMS The lift in yields helped the U.S. dollar regain ground on
the yen to stand at 102.37 early Thursday, up from a low
of 101.82. It may get further support if U.S. gross domestic
product data get revised up later Thursday. A major mover was the Canadian dollar which sagged to
3-1/2-year lows after the Bank of Canada issued a dovish policy
statement, highlighting the risks of undesirably weak inflation. The euro was steady at $1.3585, having bounced from a
trough of $1.3527 on Wednesday. Service sector data had showed
activity in Italy and France shrinking in November but expanding
in Spain and Germany, highlighting the divergence in the bloc. There was more good news for Spain as Moody's upgraded its
credit outlook to stable from negative, citing a rebalancing of
and a brighter medium-term view for the country's economy. Investors were now looking ahead of a policy meeting by the
European Central Bank. While the consensus is that the central
bank will not announce any new measures, markets are nervous
having been taken off guard by November's rate cut. "We think the Refi rate, the deposit rate, and the forward
guidance will be kept unchanged," said Philippe Gudin, an
analyst at Barclays. "The focus will be on the presentation of
staff projections for 2014 and 2015, and in particular on
inflation forecasts." If the region's recovery continues, the ECB may be done
easing for this cycle. "Should economic activity fail to gain momentum or deflation
concerns materialise, we think further monetary easing would be
decided," added Gudin. "Although this is not our baseline
scenario, we think the probability is non-negligible." In commodity markets, spot gold edged back to $1,238,
giving up some of Wednesday's 1.7 percent rally. U.S. crude eased 9 cents to $97.11, but that followed
a 1.2 percent rally on Wednesday after data showed domestic
crude stocks fell by 5.6 million barrels, snapping 10 straight
weeks of builds. Going the other way, Brent crude finished down 97
cents on Wednesday at $111.65 a barrel after initially rising to
the highest since Sept. 12 at $113.02. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/uJ8snqBogi4/story01.htm