

NEW YORK, Dec 10 (IFR) - Credit Suisse is heard looking to
syndicate a US$150m five-year amortizing loan extended to
Barbados after the sovereign failed to successfully place a bond
in October, according to market sources. 
The loan offers a margin of Libor+700bp, has an average life
of 3.5 years and an 18-month grace period, said a source with
knowledge about the deal. "It is going to be a bit challenging,
unless you have big local banks buy it," said the source, noting
that the sovereign's outstanding 2021s and 2022s are trading
near 9%. According to a resolution posted on the Barbados
Parliament's website, the government has been seeking to borrow
up to US$225m in an effort to cover budgetary needs, including
infrastructure projects and the bolstering of foreign reserves. Credit Suisse AG Cayman Islands and First Caribbean
International Bank are cited as joint lead arrangers and joint
bookrunners on the US$150m loan, which carries a greenshoe
option allowing the borrower to increase the size by an
additional US$75m. The applicable margin steps up by 50bp for each downgrade
below BB- by S  and Fitch or below Ba3 by Moody's.
Alternatively, margins shrink by 25bp for each upgrade, provided
that the rate does not go below the applicable margin
established at the close. According to the resolution document, there is an
arrangement fee of 75bp of the facility amount, and a
participation fee of 75bp-125bp of the facility amount. The loan
also carries market flex clauses. The loan comes in the wake of
the sovereign failed attempt to carry out a new issue and
liability management operation in October. At the time local institutional accounts declined to
participate in a sovereign tender that involved taking an
accounting loss by selling the country's existing 2021s and
2022s below par. Barbados was looking to fund the up to US$250m tender
through a new October 2025 benchmark bond, with initial price
thoughts set in the 8.75% area. Deutsche Bank acted as lead,
with CIBC coming in as co-manager. Expected ratings are Ba1/BB+. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/Q0murZ09L7M/story01.htm