


By Emily Stephenson and Douwe Miedema WASHINGTON  Dec 10 (Reuters) - U.S. regulators toughened key
sections of the Volcker rule's crackdown on Wall Street's risky
trades on Tuesday as they finalized one of the harshest reforms
after the credit meltdown. The rule - named after former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul
Volcker, who championed the reform - generally bans banks from
proprietary trading, or speculative trading for their own
profits. The final rule includes strictly defined carve-outs for
trades executed to serve clients' interests or to protect
against market risks, and forces banks to show regulators that
they are not trying to pass off speculative bets as legitimate
trades. Regulators are eager to prevent a repeat of trading debacles
such as JPMorgan's $6 billion trading loss in 2012,
dubbed the "London Whale" because of the huge positions the bank
took in credit markets. Still, it is unclear exactly how regulators will police
banks' trading activity and officials acknowledged the
sprawling, 882-page rule was a complex document. "Many of us - myself included - had hoped for a final rule
substantially more streamlined than the 2011 proposal. I think
we need to acknowledge that it has been only modestly
simplified," Federal Reserve Governor Dan Tarullo said. The Fed was just one of five regulatory agencies tasked with
reaching agreement on one of the most hotly debated parts of the
2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform act, aimed at preventing a
repeat of the taxpayer bailouts during the 2007-2009 financial
crisis. Similar rules in Europe are far weaker. The idea was to prohibit banks backed by the Fed's safety
net from proprietary trading and bar them from owning more than
3 percent of hedge funds, or private equity funds. The rule is expected to hit the largest investment banks
hardest, including JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, but Wall
Street banks in recent years have already wound down much of
their proprietary trading activities. "What we have on paper now is a fairly aggressive regulatory
posture from the banking agencies, but it remains to be seen how
aggressively it will be implemented and enforced," said Kevin
Petrasic, a regulatory lawyer at Paul Hastings in Washington. Better Markets, an often vocal pressure group critical of
large banks, reacted positively to the final rule, calling it a
"major defeat for Wall Street". CARVE-OUTS Regulators have struggled for years to agree on a text that,
while prohibiting risky activities, would still allow banks to
take on risk on behalf of clients as market-makers, to hedge
risk, or when underwriting securities. In the final wording, banks could still engage in market
making and take on positions to help clients trade, but their
inventories should not exceed "the reasonably expected near-term
demands of customers", the regulators said. The regulators also seek to put an end to portfolio hedging,
a practice in which banks entered all kinds of trades that were
supposed to hedge risk elsewhere in the business but that could
be used as veiled speculation. "The rule would prohibit 'macro-hedging' that has caused
large speculative losses at institutions in the past," Martin
Gruenberg, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp
(FDIC), said in a statement. Other changes from the originally proposed rule include a
wider exemption for the trading of government bonds, which will
now be permitted for foreign sovereign fixed income instruments
and not just for U.S. bonds, after complaints from Europe. Regulators extended the deadline by which banks have to
fully comply with the new regulations by one year to July 2015,
a widely expected move after they repeatedly missed deadlines
for the rule. The chief executives of the biggest banks would have to
attest their banks have appropriate programs in place to achieve
compliance with the rule, but would not themselves have to
confirm their banks are in compliance. Large investment banks have such sprawling legal structures
engaging in different financial activities that the rule needs
to be adopted by a patchwork of U.S. agencies: three bank
watchdogs and two market regulators. The agencies that need to adopt the rule, including the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the bank regulators,
largely proceeded as planned on Tuesday despite the threat of
snowstorms on the U.S. East Coast, which caused federal
government offices to shut down. The boards of the FDIC and the Fed voted unanimously on
Tuesday to adopt the final rule. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the fifth agency
that needs to approve it, canceled a public vote on the rule,
but said it would adopt the rule behind closed doors. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/D_HSvrtPeIQ/story01.htm