

* Akerson accelerates exit after wife's cancer diagnosis 
* CFO Ammann named president, ex-Cummins CEO named chairman * Barra, 51, has 33 years' experience at GM * U.S. Treasury exited its GM stake on Monday By Ben Klayman DETROIT, Dec 10 (Reuters) - General Motors Co said on
Tuesday Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson will step down next
month and be replaced by global product development chief Mary
Barra, who will become the first woman to lead a global
automaker. The day after the U.S. Treasury announced it had sold the
last of its GM shares, the company said in a
statement that Akerson, who is also the chairman, will leave on
Jan. 15, moving forward his planned departure by several months.
His wife was recently diagnosed with an advanced stage of
cancer. Barra, 51, GM's executive vice president for global product
development, purchasing and supply chain, was elected by the
board as the next CEO and will become a director. Theodore
Solso, 66, will succeed Akerson, 65, as chairman. "I will leave with great satisfaction in what we have
accomplished, great optimism over what is ahead and great pride
that we are restoring General Motors as America's standard
bearer in the global auto industry," Akerson said in a message
to employees. "My goals as CEO were to put the customer at the center of
every decision we make, to position GM for long-term success and
to make GM a company that America can be proud of again," he
added. "We are well down that path, and I'm certain that our new
team will keep us moving in that direction." Under Akerson, GM had moved to eliminate some of its
historic bureaucracy and inefficiencies, recovered its
investment grade credit rating, and pared financial losses in
its European business. The U.S. Treasury's exit on Monday was another sign that
could clear the way for GM to restore a common-stock dividend, a
move investors have been hoping for. Sources told Reuters last month that Akerson might step down
in 2014. He was appointed CEO just before GM re-entered public
markets on November 2010, following a $49.5 billion government
bailout and bankruptcy reorganization. Speculation on his exit gained steam in April, when GM
disclosed in a securities filing that his compensation plan had
changed. The CEO did not receive any restricted stock units last
year "in acknowledgement of the possibility of his retirement
before the completion of the three-year vesting period," which
would be in 2015. Some GM employees and analysts said Akerson gave Barra's
candidacy a boost in September when he said it was "inevitable"
that a woman would one day run one of the U.S. automakers. GM
has several women executives in senior management as well as
four women on its board. With 33 years of experience at GM, Barra has risen through a
series of manufacturing, engineering and senior staff positions,
and is currently in charge of reducing the number of platforms
on which GM builds its vehicles. A source close to Akerson's
thinking who asked not to be identified said the CEO valued
Barra highly for "bringing order to chaos" in the product
development process. "With an amazing portfolio of cars and trucks and the
strongest financial performance in our recent history, this is
an exciting time at today's GM," Barra said in the company
statement. "I'm honored to lead the best team in the business
and to keep our momentum at full speed." Jared Rowe, president of industry research firm Kelley Blue
Book, said it was great to see a woman named to lead GM. "GM is in more than capable hands as we've seen some of the
best products released under Mary Barra," he said. "Now that the
company has also been freed from government ownership, Mary has
the opportunity to see the company continue to develop vehicles
that consumers want to drive while improving its continued
profitability." In other management changes, GM said Chief Financial Officer
Dan Ammann, 41, would assume the title of president, while North
American chief Mark Reuss, 50, would replace Barra as head of
product development. Alan Batey, currently vice president of
global Chevrolet, will replace Reuss as head of North America. GM did not name a replacement for Ammann as CFO. Vice Chairman Steve Girsky, 51, will move to a senior
adviser role until leaving the company in April, GM said. He
will remain on the board. Solso is the former chairman and CEO of Cummins Inc 
and has been a member of the GM board since June 2012. Shares of GM were up 5 cents at $40.95 on Tuesday morning on
the New York Stock Exchange. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/iUYe_J583iA/story01.htm