


By Solarina Ho and Allison Martell TORONTO  Dec 10 (Reuters) - Lululemon Athletica Inc 
named a new chief executive on Tuesday and said founder Chip
Wilson will step down as chairman, as the upscale yogawear
retailer tries to expand globally and put a series of
embarrassing quality issues and other gaffes behind it. Lululemon said Laurent Potdevin, most recently president of
trendy footwear brand TOMS Shoes, will replace Christine Day as
CEO in January, and emphasized Potdevin's role leading TOMS'
global expansion. Vancouver-based Lululemon, in the early stages of a push
into Europe and Asia, was forced to recall some of its signature
black stretchy pants in March because they were see-through. Potdevin will have to deal with supply chain problems that
caused the multimillion-dollar recall, fend off tough
competition and shore up Lululemon's reputation. "This company has jeopardized its long-term relationship
with its customers over the last year, via some product quality
issues, via some board communication by the founder," said
Credit Suisse analyst Christian Buss. "What I'll be looking for are signs they can re-engage their
customers in a positive way." Closely held TOMS, which gives shoes to a needy child for
every pair it sells, has grown rapidly since it was founded in
2006. Potdevin, also the former CEO of Burton Snowboards,
started his career with luxury group LVMH. On a call with analysts and investors, incoming chairman
Michael Casey highlighted Potdevin's experience with both
athletic clothing and luxury goods. Investors did not cheer immediately. Lululemon's usually
volatile shares, off nearly 15 percent since June when Day
announced her intention to quit, rose 0.2 percent to $70.46. "LOOSE CANNON" Wilson, who founded Lululemon in 1998 and owns about 9
percent of the company, will step down as non-executive chairman
prior to Lululemon's annual meeting in June. He will remain on
the board. Michael Casey, a former Starbucks Corp executive
and lead director of Lululemon's board for the past six years,
will take over as chairman. Wilson caused a furor last month when he said Lululemon
products were wrong for certain body shapes. Wilson has said he chose the name "Lululemon" because the L
sound is not in the Japanese language. "It's funny to watch them
try to say it," he said in a 2004 profile in the National Post
Business magazine. "We view Wilson's departure as chairman as a positive
because he is obviously considered something of a loose cannon
who may have been alienating consumers and certainly seems to
have had that effect on some investors," Faye Landes, an analyst
with Cowen and Co, said in a research note. "CULT BRANDS" Credit Suisse's Buss said he was pleased to see control
consolidate under one executive who has done a good job managing
"cult brands." But he said Potdevin's lack of significant
experience operating stores warranted caution. TOMS and Burton
products are largely sold by other retailers. Day surprised investors when she said she would leave once a
replacement was found. She led Lululemon as it became a major
retail player, growing at a blistering pace in the United
States, a market few Canadian retailers have cracked. Lululemon's chief product officer also left in the wake of
the recall. The company was hit with a U.S. lawsuit in July that accused
it of defrauding shareholders by hiding defects in the pants and
concealing talks that led to the departure of Day. The company has said it did not try to hide the problem, and
argued in a recent court filing that the suit should be thrown
out. Lululemon is due to announce third-quarter results on
Thursday. In September, it trimmed its forecast for full-year
sales and profit. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/lGuz16d0mAE/story01.htm