


By Ransdell Pierson Dec 10 (Reuters) - Merck  &  Co said on Tuesday it
will advance its experimental Alzheimer's drug into late-stage
trials among patients with mild to moderate disease, after an
independent monitoring board reviewed its safety and recommended
the trial continue to recruit patients. The data monitoring committee gave its blessing to a Phase
III trial involving up to 1,960 patients after examining interim
safety data from a mid-stage trial of 200 patients who had been
treated with the medicine, called MK-8931, for at least three
months. The planned new study, called EPOCH, is expected to
conclude in mid-2017, Merck said. The medicine works by blocking an enzyme called beta
secretase, which is involved in production of beta-amyloid, a
protein that creates brain plaques considered a major cause of
the progressive memory-robbing disease. Such medicines are known
as BACE inhibitors. Merck will also begin a separate Phase III trial of the
drug, involving 1,500 patients, in so-called "prodromal"
patients who do not yet have dementia. That study, called APECS, will enroll patients with mild
cognitive problems and potential biomarkers for Alzheimer's,
such as elevated levels of beta amyloid in the brain and of beta
amyloid and the protein tau in spinal fluid. They will be
treated for two years and then assessed for progression toward
dementia. Oral drugs to block beta secretase, although still unproven,
are considered one of the most promising new approaches to
slowing progression of Alzheimer's after an injectable class of
medicines meant to block beta amyloid directly last year failed
or fell short in trials conducted by Pfizer Inc and Eli
Lilly and Co. But safety of BACE inhibitors became a major concern in
June, when Lilly pulled the plug on its own medication due to
liver toxicity. Although data from Merck's mid-stage trial of MK-8931
remains blinded, or secret, the data monitoring committee was
allowed to examine the data for hints of safety issues. Its
green light could help ease safety concerns over the emerging
new class of medicines. "There's good reason to hope that a BACE inhibitor might
help patients, and ours is the first to get the go-ahead for
Phase III" trials, Darryle Schoepp, head of neuroscience at
Merck, said in an interview. The Merck drug in earlier trials cut production of a-beta
peptide, the building block of beta amyloid plaque, by 79
percent, Schoepp said. J.P.Morgan analyst Chris Schott said expectations remained
"low" for BACE inhibitors following termination of Lilly's
product. But he said Merck's drug could generate annual sales of
more than $5 billion if it succeeds in trials and is approved. An estimated 35 million people worldwide are believed to
have dementia, including Alzheimer's disease, and those numbers
are expected to rise as more people live longer. Merck shares slipped 0.7 percent to $49.21 in morning
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, amid moderate declines
for the drug sector. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/PZTEdv-7dvE/story01.htm