

* Swiss stocks take most points off FTSEurofirst 300 
* FTSEurofirst 300 down 0.6 pct * Some traders see little room for moves higher this year * Fed tapering uncertainty also weighing on equity markets By Sudip Kar-Gupta LONDON, Dec 10 (Reuters) - European shares slipped on
Tuesday, weighed down by major Swiss stocks as a rally in the
Swiss franc raised fresh concern about the country's
exports. The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index was down by
0.7 percent at 1,263.93 points in late session trading. Swiss
stocks such as chemicals groups Roche, drugs group
Novartis and food company Nestle took the
most points off the index. Switzerland's SMI benchmark equity index fell around
1 percent as the Swiss franc rose to a two-year high against the
dollar on Tuesday. "The Swiss franc has strengthened. This could weigh on the
country's exports, and this is why the SMI is down," said
SteppenWolf Capital chief investment officer Phoebus
Theologites. Also dragging down European equities was renewed speculation
that the U.S. Federal Reserve will start scaling back its
stimulus measures as early as this month, traders said. The euro zone's blue-chip Euro STOXX 50 index 
declined 0.9 percent to 2,962.75 points. Germany's DAX,
which has hit record highs this year, fell 0.9 percent to
9,113.57 points. Late on Monday, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard, a
voting member on the U.S. central bank's policy-making
committee, said the Fed could reduce its monthly bond purchases
slightly this month, sooner than most economists expect. Although many traders still felt the Fed was more likely to
start tapering its bond-buying in March, the uncertainty was
enough to hold back equity markets and cause a 3.9 percent rise
on the Euro STOXX 50 Volatility Index. CASHING IN PROFITS "Everyone's talking about tapering, and that's causing
people to take a bit off the table," said Darren Courtney-Cook,
head of trading at Central Markets Investment Management. In spite of Tuesday's pullback, the FTSEurofirst 300 index
remains up by 11 percent since the start of 2013 and the Euro
STOXX 50 up by 12 percent. The DAX is still up nearly 20 percent
and the Swiss SMI around 17 percent. Hendrik Klein, who heads Swiss high-frequency trading and
asset-management firm Da Vinci Invest AG, felt the rally  was
over for 2013. The uncertainty over the Fed will keep European
equity markets from hitting new highs before the end of the
year, he said. He expects the DAX to finish 2013 around 9,100. "I see the potential for another big up-move before the end
of the year as very limited, as people will be looking to
consolidate the gains made so far this year," he said. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/HsHN7L8FsMw/story01.htm