	 Archbishop Welby meets energy bosses  

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, said companies had to  justify fully  their price increases 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Cost of energy 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Energy bill manoeuvres 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Where does our power come from? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Is the energy market a big fix? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Q A: Are UK bills too high? 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       The Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has met bosses from four of the UK s  big six  energy companies. 
         The meeting comes just weeks after he criticised recent price rises.  
         EOn s chief executive Tony Cocker, RWE npower s Paul Massara, Centrica s Sam Laidlaw and EDF s Vincent de Rivaz all went to meet the Archbishop.  
         At a recent government energy and climate change committee hearing, only one of the chief executives of the big six energy bosses was in attendance.  
         Keith Anderson, Scottish Power s chief executive could not attend Tuesday s event, but the company said other dates had been provided.  
         SSE s boss Alistair Phillips-Davies similarly could not attend the meeting.  
         It is understood that where an alternative senior company figure was offered, this was declined.  
         SSE said in a statement:   SSE understands the pressures on households due to rising energy prices and we are always happy to engage with anyone who wants to get involved in finding ways to reduce the impact of energy price pressures on customers.  
         We extend an open invitation for the Archbishop of Canterbury to meet with our team and staff.   
   'Inexplicable' 
	       In a statement about the meeting, Lambeth Palace said:  The Archbishop of Canterbury today welcomed a small group of senior representatives from the energy industry to hear their perspectives on social responsibility around the energy supply sector. 
         Sources added that discussions were  warm and open  and that the group spoke for nearly an hour.  
         In October, the Archbishop told the Daily Mail he understood people who found the latest price rises  inexplicable . 
         The former oil executive said companies had to  justify fully  their actions. 
         I do understand when people feel that this is inexplicable, and I can understand people being angry about it, because having spent years on a low income as a clergyman, I know what it is like when your household budget is blown apart by a significant extra fuel bill and your anxiety levels become very high,  he said. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25331003#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa