	 India s economy grows faster than expected  

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     A slowdown in key sectors such as manufacturing has hurt India s growth rate 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Young are hit by India s skills gap 

		 


											




	


	





	 India raises interest rate again  

		 


											




	


	





	 India slowdown sparks crisis talk 

		 


								 
	 
                       India s economic growth rate picked up strongly in the second quarter, according to official figures. 
         The economy expanded at an annual rate of 4.8% in the July-to-September period, up from 4.4% in the previous quarter. 
         The acceleration was faster than analysts had been expecting. 
         Asia s third-largest economy has been weighed down by various factors, such as high inflation, a weak currency and a drop in foreign investment. 
         This is the fourth quarter in a row that India s annual growth rate has been below the 5% mark, and the previous quarter s rate of 4.4% was the lowest for four years. 
         Earlier this year, the Indian prime minister s economic advisory council lowered the growth outlook for the current financial year. 
         It now expects the economy to expand by 5.3% this year, down from its earlier projection of 6.4%. 
   Growth hurdles 
	       India s economy has been hurt by a range of factors in recent months, including a slowdown in key sectors such as mining and manufacturing.  
         Slowing growth, coupled with a recovery in developed markets, such as the US, has made India a less attractive option for foreign investors. 
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
				 
					 US Dollar v Indian Rupee  
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 29 Nov 2013, 18:46 ET  
		
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 1 buys 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						62.4200
						 
						 				
							 + 
							 +0.02 					
						 
						 		
							 + 
							 +0.02 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       Speculation that the US may scale back its key economic stimulus measure has seen investors pull money out of emerging markets, such as India.   
         This has affected India s currency, which dipped nearly 25% against the US dollar between January and September this year. 
         Though the rupee has recovered a little since then, it is still down about 13% against the dollar since the start of this year. 
         That has made imports more expensive and contributed to a high rate of consumer inflation, which was 10.1% October, up from 9.84% in September. 
         High food and fuel prices have contributed to inflation becoming  entrenched , finance minister P Chidambaram said. 
         As a result, the central bank has had to raise the cost of borrowing in a bid to curb inflation.  
         The latest interest rate rise in October saw the key rate increase to 7.75%. 
         Some observers argue that high interest rates are hurting businesses and households, and having a negative impact on the economy.  
         A combination of weak investment, high inflation and tight monetary policy would not let India s economic recovery gather steam any time soon,  Miguel Chanco, Asia economist at Capital Economics, told the BBC. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25149322#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa