	 S P upgrades Spain s economic outlook 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Spain s government has been slicing spending to help reduce public debt 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Eurozone economic growth slows 

		 


											




	


	





	 Spain growth ends two-year recession 

		 


								 
	 
                       The economic outlook for Spain has improved, says ratings agency Standard and Poor s (S P). 
         The debt-laden country, whose banks came under severe pressure during the financial crisis, has been struggling to improve its public finances. 
         S P raised its assessment from negative to stable and re-affirmed its BBB- long-term sovereign credit rating. 
         However, S P cut its credit rating for the Netherlands from the top-level AAA rating to AA+. 
         S P citing the Netherland s worsening growth prospects as a reason for the cut. 
         This demotion leaves only Germany, Luxembourg and Finland as the remaining eurozone countries with the top rating of AAA, according to S P. 
         But rival ratings agencies, Moody s and Fitch, have maintained their AAA rating for the Netherlands. 
   Austerity measures 
	       Spain s economy grew 0.1% in the July-to-September period, after contracting for the previous nine quarters, officially lifting it out of recession. 
         Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy s government is hoping economic growth will help reduce Spain s spiralling public debt, currently 943bn euros (£792.5bn; $1.3 trillion), or more than 92% of the country s entire gross domestic product (GDP). 
         Austerity measures have led to riots, while unemployment has now reached 27%. 
         The country s banks, which received 41bn euros of EU bailout funding in 2012, have been gradually reducing their borrowings from the European Central Bank over the last year. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25150368#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa