	 Stagecoach looks to US for expansion 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Stagecoach says it is considering expanding its megabus service to new locations 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Stagecoach on financial track 

		 


											




	


	





	 Stagecoach pilots tracker technology 

		 


											




	


	





	 Stagecoach to launch sleeper network 

		 


														 
	 
                       Transport firm Stagecoach has reported a small rise in half-year profits and said there was  significant potential  to expand in the US. 
         The company made pre-tax profits of £98.5m to 31 October compared with £96.9m in 2012.  
         The Perth-based group said its megabus services in the UK, mainland Europe and the US had  an exciting future ahead  as people got  back on board the bus . 
         It also said the UK rail franchising programme was  moving once again . 
         Stagecoach along with its rail partner Virgin was caught up in the franchise debacle on the West Coast line. 
         Last year the Department for Transport (DfT) scrapped the award of the West Coast franchise, after mistakes were made in the bidding process. 
         An official report blamed a  damning failure  by the DfT, which has since revised the tendering process. 
         Stagecoach chairman Sir Brian Souter said:  Franchising has always been an evolving model and there are positive signs that the government has listened to the ideas of industry and other stakeholders on how it can continue to deliver for passengers and taxpayers. 
         The group said its rail and bus operations had performed well over the six month period but saw future growth for its megabus operations. 
         It said people were increasingly ditching cars in favour of travelling by bus and coach in the UK and US, where it operates about 2,800 buses and coaches, including its megabus operation linking about 100 locations. 
         Stagecoach chief executive, Martin Griffiths, commented:  We see significant potential to expand our presence in the US, where we already operate in 40 states.  
         We are also considering opportunities to roll-out our premium day and overnight services to new locations. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-scotland-business-25330238#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa