	 Amazon testing drones for deliveries 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Amazon said it was ready to start commercial drone deliveries as soon as regulations were in place 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Amazon workers face ‘illness risk’ 

		 


											




	


	





	 Rise of the drone hobbyists 

		 


											




		


	





	 Amazon  will convert many temp jobs  Watch 

		 


											 
	 
                       Amazon, the world s largest online retailer, is testing unmanned drones to deliver goods to customers, according to Chief Executive Jeff Bezos. 
         The drones, called Octocopters, could deliver packages weighing up to 2.3kg to customers within 30 minutes of them placing the order, he said.  
         However, he added that it could take up to five years for the service to start.  
         The US Federal Aviation Administration is yet to approve the use of unmanned drones for civilian purposes.  
         I know this looks like science fiction, but it s not,  Mr Bezos told CBS television s 60 Minutes programme. 
         We can do half-hour delivery... and we can carry objects, we think, up to five pounds (2.3kg), which covers 86% of the items that we deliver. 
   'Ready to enter' 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
From a technology point of view, we'll be ready to enter commercial operations as soon as the necessary regulations are in place 
End Quote 
	 Amazon 
	

		        The service will be called Prime Air and comes as Amazon is looking to improve its efficiency to boost growth. 
         Amazon also  posted a video on its website  showing a drone picking up a package from one of its warehouses and delivering it to the doorstep of a customer s house.  
         However, it still has to wait for permission from US regulators. 
         The US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has approved the use of drones for police and government agencies, issuing about 1,400 permits over the past several years. 
         Civilian air space is expected to be opened up to all kinds of drones in the US by 2015 and in Europe by 2016.  
         Amazon said  from a technology point of view, we ll be ready to enter commercial operations as soon as the necessary regulations are in place .  
         The FAA was  actively working on rules for unmanned aerial vehicles , the company said, adding that it hoped the green light would be given as early as 2015. 
         One day, Prime Air vehicles will be as normal as seeing mail trucks on the road today. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-25180906#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa