	 Saab to resume making cars in Sweden 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Saab is set to restart production two years after it filed for bankruptcy 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
				
		 
		
	
						 Global Car Industry 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 UK car production picks up pace 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Toyota eyes fuel cell car by 2015 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Volkswagen recalls 2.6 million cars 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 In pictures: Frankfurt motor show 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
						

	       	      
	
                       Saab will restart production on Monday as the firm s new owners look to get the carmaker back on track. 
         Saab went bankrupt in December 2011 and was bought by a Chinese-Swedish investment group, National Electric Vehicle Sweden (Nevs), last year. 
         The carmaker will restart production of its 9-3 sedan model at its Trollhattan factory in western Sweden.  
         The firm will initially make a petrol-powered version of the car with the aim of launching an electric version later. 
         It s very similar, you can t change or develop very much in a year. We acquired the assets in August last year,  Mikael Oestlund, a spokesman for Nevs was quoted as saying by the AFP news agency.  
         Our focus has been to get the co-operation up and running with 400 suppliers and ensure the facilities were working. 
   Slow and steady 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
We are humble and say we'll start the production volume with low figures and be able to increase over time according to the market's demand 
End Quote 
	 Mikael Oestlund 
	 Nevs 

		        Saab has seen mixed fortunes over the past few years.  
         US carmaker General Motors (GM) bought a 50% stake and management control of the firm in 1989, and gained full ownership in 2000. 
         The Swedish company s car sales peaked at 133,000 cars in 2006. But then it saw its fortunes dwindle with sales falling to 93,000 cars in 2008 and just 27,000 in 2009.  
         To make matters worse, GM itself sought bankruptcy protection as the global financial crisis unfolded, forcing the US company to dispose of assets.  
         GM sold Saab to Dutch group Spyker, which in turn eventually sold the firm to Nevs in June last year. The new owners have said they want to focus on electric cars as they look to revive the brand.  
         However, Mr Oestlund said that initial production would be modest. 
         We don t want to make promises or forecasts we don t know we can fulfil,  he said.  
         We are humble and say we ll start the production volume with low figures and be able to increase over time according to the market s demand.   
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25180698#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa