	 ANZ class action suit set to begin in Australia 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The collective action claims the bank charged its customers exorbitant fees 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Big Banking 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 We ve kept businesses alive - RBS 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Cable hands RBS file to watchdog 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Parties row over Co-op  smears 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 JP Morgan in record $13bn settlement 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       A class action suit filed against Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ), one of Australia s big four banks, is set to begin on Monday. 
         Some 38,000 customers have taken the bank to court over claims that it charged them  exorbitant fees . 
         These include  dishonour  fees on bank accounts, as well as over- limit fees and late payment fees on credit cards. 
         A lawyer representing the customers estimated the total fees charged by ANZ to be around A$50m ($46m; £28m). 
         Andrew Watson, the head of class actions at Maurice Blackburn, the firm representing the customers, told the Australian Broadcast Corporation (ABC) that the size of fees varied, but that  $25 to $35 is the sort of range for fees that are imposed .  
         So you might be a dollar over on your account, or a day late in your payment and the banks will slug you with a fee that s out of all proportion to what it costs them for that minor transgression. 
         We think it s worth [in total] about A$50m,  he added. 
   Fine v fees? 
	 
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
The claim against the ANZ... will be a template for the other actions 
End Quote 
	 Maurice Blackburn 
	

		        The Australian High Court ruled last year that these fees could be considered as a penalty charged by the bank.  
         Maurice Blackburn,  said on its website  that  if they re proven during the trial to constitute a penalty, rather than a fee for service, then those fees are lawfully recoverable . 
         The firm also claimed the bank charged very high fees for a service  that cost them only a matter or cents or a few dollars at the most to administer . 
         ANZ is not the only bank that is facing such a case in Australia.  
         Maurice Blackburn has also launched a broader class action suit involving 170,000 customers and seven other banks - the largest collective legal action in Australia. 
         The law firm also claims that customers  who were charged these unfair fees by the banks have signed up online to be part of the action to redeem their money plus interest, with the claim size now estimated at more than A$220m . 
         The banks involved in the broader class action suit are Citibank, Commonwealth Bank, National Australia Bank (NAB), St George, Westpac, BankSA and Bankwest. 
         The claim against the ANZ... will be a template for the other actions,  it added. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25180693#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa