	 Female apprentices train for low-paid jobs, TUC report says 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     The TUC wants to see more women in  male-dominated  workplaces 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Boost skills education say employers 

		 


											




	


	





	 Engineering gap  constrains  economy 

		 


											




	


	





	 Young women  trapped  in low pay 

		 


											 
	 
                       Female apprentices are more likely to end up in low-paid jobs as a result of training in  female-dominated sectors , new research has suggested. 
         A study by the TUC and the National Apprenticeship Service  found roughly equal numbers of men and women became apprentices in 2011-12.  
         But the TUC said  gender stereotyping  was putting women off careers in traditionally male industries. 
         It found many women in hairdressing, but few in engineering or construction. 
         The report said more than 98% of apprentices in construction and vehicle repair were male, while more than 90% of childcare and hairdressing apprentices were female. 
   'Huge inequalities' 
	       The TUC, which represents 54 trade unions, said the number of women taking apprenticeships had doubled over the last decade. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 		 Most/fewest female apprentices 
		 
	
	 
	 
      Childcare - 93.1% 
      Hairdressing - 91.2% 
      Classroom support - 89.7% 
      Construction - 1.9% 
      Vehicle maintenance/repair - 1.6% 
      Electro-technical - 1.4% 
   
	 
	        But it said female-dominated areas tended to offer lower wages and less chance of career progression. 
         The study also raised concerns about the low number of black and Asian people taking apprenticeships, especially in higher-paid sectors such as engineering and construction. 
         The proportion of apprentices from ethnic minorities rose from 6.6% in 2007-8 to 10.3% four years later, but these figures were 5.8% and 9.4% for higher and advanced level apprenticeships. 
         TUC general secretary Frances O Grady said there was  genuine political will  to improve apprenticeships and people s access to them - but  huge inequalities  were still a problem. 
         Young women still overwhelmingly find themselves pursuing careers in  traditional  industries which tend to pay less, and black and Asian people continue to be under-represented in key sectors of the economy,  she said. 
   
   

     Frances O Grady said  huge inequalities  in apprenticeships must be tackled 
   
       Unless we create better training and employment opportunities for young people, and challenge gender stereotyping and discrimination from the outset, the situation is not going to improve. 
         The report recommends promoting apprenticeships in schools in a way that challenges  traditional gender stereotyping from an early stage . 
         It also suggests research into the  barriers  facing black and Asian people,  more targeted support  for females and ethnic minorities, and more visits for young women to  male-dominated workplaces . 
   Stem support 
	       Equalities minister Helen Grant said women were still  seriously under-represented  in science, technology, engineering and mathematics - known as Stem subjects. 
         Women outperform men in so many ways and we need to fill them with the confidence that matches their potential,  she said. 
         Not only are women missing out on what can be a highly rewarding career, but UK companies are missing out on a huge pool of talent. 
         She said the government was  supporting a range of activities which aim to help promote Stem education and careers , including an ambassadors programme and a diversity programme. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-25328917#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa