	 Hearts: Administration exit not possible until February 

     
         
 
								
									 
																											 
							                                                                                    														 
																			 
							 By Brian McLauchlin 
							 BBC Scotland 
						 
					 
				
				
							 

			    
                               Hearts will not be in a position to exit administration until February at the earliest.

  
               A creditors  meeting will go ahead at Tynecastle on Friday, with fans  group Foundation of Hearts offering £2.5m towards debts of around £30m. 

  
               But parent company UBIG s 50% holding cannot be sold or assigned until they have their creditors  meeting, which is scheduled for late January.

  
               Therefore, any agreement reached on Friday would be conditional.

  
               Earlier this month, administrator BDO sent out a proposal for a company voluntary arrangement [CVA] to take the Scottish Premiership club out of administration. 

  
               And the CVA requires the approval of creditors representing 75% of the club s debt.

  
               Ukio Bankas and UBIG are owed the vast majority of money and together own about 80% of the club s shares.

  
               A spokesman for FoH said:  The Foundation of Hearts believes the timescales mentioned are entirely consistent with the process of taking Hearts out of administration.

  
                Any agreement of a CVA is subject to all sorts of terms and conditions on all sides, and that is a time consuming process which cannot start until after the cooling off period (in the event of an approved CVA).  

  
               UBIG, which was controlled by former Hearts owner Vladimir Romanov, had its assets frozen in April after declaring insolvency and is now in the hands of liquidators.

  
               Hearts entered administration on 19 June and started this season in the Premiership with a 15-point deduction.

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hearts  CVA meeting is postponed
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 21 Nov 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hearts signing ban to run until 2014
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 01 Aug 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Hearts full debt details revealed
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 31 Jul 2013 
		
			 Hearts 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Get Inspired: FOOTBALL
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 19 Jul 2013 
		
			 Get Inspired 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/25144366