	 Welsh Rugby Union and regions immersed in crucial meeting 

     
         
 
								
				
				
							 

			    
                               Representatives from Welsh rugby s four regions are meeting the Welsh Rugby Union (WRU) on Wednesday in an attempt to resolve their differences. 

  
               Ospreys, Blues, Scarlets and Dragons say they want to play against English clubs rather than be forced by the WRU to compete in the Heineken Cup. 

  
               The regions 
    
could take legal action  

     for the right to play in cross-border tournaments without WRU permission.

  
               Scarlets head coach Simon Easterby has described the meeting as  huge .

  
     
		 Continue reading the main story 	




	 
		 This is as big a point in the professional game as there's been. That meeting's huge 
	 


	 Simon Easterby 
         Scarlets head coach 


	 
               As they gathered at the Ospreys  home, Swansea s Liberty Stadium, there is increasing speculation the regions will not sign a participation agreement with the union before the 31 December deadline. 

  
               Reports have linked the quartet with a bid to join England s Premiership as rows over the future of European competitions continue. 

  
               The regions had been keen to increase revenue by joining the proposed new Rugby Champions Cup, a 20-club tournament proposed by English and French sides.

  
               But those plans came to nothing as the home unions, England aside, committed to the current Heineken Cup.

  
               Last week 
    
the English clubs confirmed they would not be involved in the competition  

     next year.

  
               Rugby Football Union chief executive Ian Ritchie is still confident English sides will compete in Europe next season, insisting there is 
    
still  a deal to be done .  


  
               WRU chief executive Roger Lewis has said the union is committed to the supporting the regions. 

  
                We sincerely hope that our professional regional organisations are able to retain their best players in Wales,  Lewis said. 

  
     
	 
				 Leicester chief executive Peter Wheeler supports Welsh regions 
				 
		
		 
		               Wheeler told BBC Radio Wales:  We have always supported each other. We might be fiercely competitive with each other but I think we recognise the synergy   between the English clubs and the Welsh clubs over a long period of time.

  
                We have supported each other in the past and I hope we do in the future as well. 

  

		 
			 

               The WRU has 
    
offered to help the four regions  

     keep their leading Welsh players in Wales, and has said it would employ all of their leading Wales internationals whose deals expire in 2014. 

  
               The current uncertainty over European competition has led to a host of star names considering their playing futures beyond the end of the 2013-14 campaign. 

  
               Wales captain Sam Warburton has 
    
given Cardiff Blues and the WRU a Wednesday deadline  

     to put together a deal to keep him in the country. 

  
               One of players who has already decided to leave Wales at the end of the season is Scarlets centre Jonathan Davies, who has signed for French side Clermont. 

  
               His current boss, Easterby, believes it is vital the regions and the WRU come to an agreement.

  
                It s going to take both parties to come together and have the same mindset and hopefully the same thinking to taking the game forward,  Easterby said.

  
                Otherwise we re going to miss an opportunity. 

  
                I think it s that big at the moment. It s a big opportunity to safeguard the game here for the next four or five years.

  
                This is as big a point in the professional game as there s been. That meeting s huge. 

  

			
						
			 
     Also related to this story 
    
     
	                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Osprey Jones wants British league
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Dec 2013 
		
			 Welsh Rugby 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Davies condemns Welsh rugby apathy
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 07 Dec 2013 
		
			 Welsh Rugby 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Regions  consider WRU legal action 
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 06 Dec 2013 
		
			 Welsh Rugby 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Jones accuses WRU over regional rugby
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 05 Dec 2013 
		
			 Welsh Rugby 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        RaboDirect Pro12
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Apr 2007 
		
			 Rugby Union 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Heineken Cup
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Apr 2007 
		
			 Rugby Union 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        European Challenge Cup
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Apr 2007 
		
			 Rugby Union 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Anglo-Welsh Cup
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Apr 2007 
		
			 Rugby Union 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        WRU Challenge Cup archive
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 12 Jul 2006 
		
			 Welsh 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Welsh Premiership
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Apr 2007 
		
			 Welsh 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Swalec Leagues
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 11 Apr 2007 
		
			 Welsh 
	
			 
	
	
             
                     
                







    	

	
	 
                                                        Rugby union positions guide
                
                                    
                     
                    
                            		
		 
		
	
					 
				 05 Feb 2007 
		
			 Rules and Equipment 
	
			 
	
	
             
             

$render("page-see-also","ID");  

			
			 
								 Share this story 
				     
                     
                 
                     Share this page 
                 
             
                         
                 
                     print 
                 
             
                                        
                 
                     $render("advert","advert-sponsor-module","page-bookmark-links"); 
                 
                 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
            
             
             
    
							 
			
							
				 
					 $render("advert","advert-google-adsense"); 
				 
				 $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
				
					 
	
			 

	
	 
				
		 
		     
			 $render("advert","advert-mpu-high"); 
		     
		     $render("advert-post-script-load"); 
		 		    
		
		
		
		 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/25325859