         

         


         
             Forbes Asia 
         
         | 
     
        12/04/2013 @ 10:29PM
             | 61 views
     
		 Embattled In China, Billionaire-Led Hon Hai To Be Remade In America 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

  
   Hon Hai CEO Terry Gou 
 
High-tech assembly giant Hon Hai Precision took a hit to its global image in 2010 after a string of worker suicides at a factory complex in southern China. Then as the 40-year-old Taiwanese company known for putting together iPads and iPhones expanded its China production to 13 factories, strikes and riots over workplace conditions further stained the company. Wages and prices were rising all the while in fabled land of cheap. Now the company is turning to the United States, where its  billionaire founder-CEO Terry Gou  travelled last month to work out what his company describes as an initial $40 million investment in “advanced” manufacturing.  
Labor problems aside, China is still cheaper and Hon Hai shows no signs of leaving it. But the unusual pivot to America allows the company better known as Foxconn to refresh its reputation while receiving a package of pluses that global manufacturers seldom consider.  
First, Hon Hai’s focus on the United States meets growing client demand for made-in-America. That means American designers such as Apple want their products to be assembled on shore, for home-market branding purposes and because the U.S. government is pushing for the return of factory jobs from offshore to power up its economy. As Hon Hai spokesman Hsing Chih-ping plaintively puts it, “We’re not just made in China. We’re made in other countries.”  
American PC or smartphone makers might drop Hon Hai if stuck just to China, giving contracts instead to rivals such as Jabil and Selectronics Inc. “For Hon Hai, a lot of people think it’s a China contract manufacturer, so this move (into the United States) could show it’s a U.S. contract manufacturer,” says Jamie Wang, a principal research analyst with market research firm Gartner in Taipei. “Otherwise its competitors will take away orders.”  
Last month Gou said Hon Hai will spend at least $10 million over two years on a robotics automation plant in Pennsylvania and $30 million more to expand an existing plant in the same state from a few dozen to 500 employees. The company is also studying sites in Arizona, New Jersey and Texas, the spokesman said. All three are near clients – which the spokesman calls a core reason for considering sites in the United States – and come with state government incentives that could trim costs.  
Analysts guess that Hon Hai is looking also for U.S. states with cheap land (no stated Silicon Valley plans for now) or high unemployment pockets that could keep wages down, though still higher than in China. Other possible perks: Production in the United States puts electronics closer to a major end-user market; the company enjoys a stronger legal system than China’s and it could lay a foundation for expansion from consumer technology into aerospace and machinery.  
Gou says he sighted the United States for its knowhow. “The reason for investing in America…is actually to create high-intensity, high-tech, high-valued added manufacturing,” he says in a Nov. 21 company statement. The Pennsylvania plants will make a range of panels and “take advantage of America’s automation and robotics to carry out production,” he adds.  
It’s hard to imagine Hon Hai making a dumb move. The CEO is worth an estimated $4.8 billion while his company posted profits of about half a billion dollars in the second quarter followed by $1 billion in the third.  Now rising costs in China are pulling the profits down, says Liang Kuo-yuan, chairman of the Yuanta-Polaris Research Institute in Taipei. “Hon Hai had exploited the mainland China market well in its early days, but now profits are gradually declining,” Liang says, giving higher Chinese wages as the main reason. “It has also met with a lot of resistance in China, a lot of incidents. If Hon Hai can cover the greater cost of wages in the United States, then it would start running some calculations.” 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/ralphjennings/2013/12/04/embattled-in-china-billionaire-led-hon-hai-to-be-remade-in-america/