         

         


         
             Taxes 
         
         | 
     
        12/04/2013 @ 10:25PM
             | 307 views
     
		 Will Congress Drive Up Gas Taxes In 2014? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    English: The Tesla Model S is an all-electric sedan. (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
You better hope that Santa brings you a Tesla for Christmas… Otherwise, if some members of Congress get their way, you’ll be paying a whole lot more at the pump.  
With Congress facing a major shortfall in transportation funding next year, Congress is eying a boost in the federal gas tax to make up the difference.  Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR)  announced a proposal,  H.R. 3636 , also called The Update, Promote, and Develop America’s Transportation Essentials (UPDATE) Act, that would phase in a 15 cent/gallon tax increase over the next three years on gasoline and diesel. With the proposal, the federal tax would increase to 33.4 cents per gallon on gas and to 42.8 cents per gallon on diesel.  
The current federal gas tax stands at  18.4 cents per gallon  and has not been increased in nearly 20 years. Blumenauer says, that means that taking into consideration inflation and increased fuel efficiency for vehicles, “the average motorist is paying about half as much per mile as they did in 1993.” That, Blumenauer believes, needs to change.  
A few years ago, the Federal Highway Administration (FHA) announced that over $70.9 billion worth of repairs were needed to maintain safe infrastructure; that followed shortly on the heels of the collapse of the I-35W Mississippi River bridge in 2007. That collapse, which  killed 13 people  and injured 145, spurred a dialogue about the condition of roads and bridges in the country. The general consensus? It’s not terrific. But the question of how to turn that around in this economy has remained unanswered – even as  former Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH)  called for an increase in the gas tax in 2010 (he blamed the lack of interest of moving the tax up on President Obama).  
The American Society of Civil Engineers 2013 Report Card gave Roads in America a D and issued Bridges a C+. The report noted that  42% of America’s major urban highways remain congested , costing the economy an estimated $101 billion in wasted time and fuel annually. The report also stressed that  one in nine of the nation’s bridges  are rated as structurally deficient, while the average age of the nation’s 607,380 bridges is currently 42 years. The ASCE calls for  $3.6 trillion  in additional investments for all infrastructure with nearly $200 billion earmarked for roads and bridges per year.  
No one is arguing that the roads and the bridges are in good condition. The real question is where to find the money to pay for repairs.  
Rather than seek out a real answer, Congress has played an elaborate version of musical chairs, transferring over $50 billion of General Fund revenue to the Highway Trust Fund. The Highway Trust Fund has been losing money for years – but that wasn’t always the case. In 2005, the Highway Trust Fund  actually had a surplus  of $10 billion: now, it will need almost $15 billion each year in additional gas tax receipts to make up the hole. Blumenauer estimates that an increase under the UPDATE Act would raise around $170 billion over ten years.  
To sell the tax, Blumenauer is playing the Reagan card, saying:  

  Instituting a reasonable gas tax increase now provides the revenues Democrats say they want with a form of a user fee which historically has been acceptable to Republicans including Ronald Reagan, who increased the gas tax by a nickel a gallon in 1982. 
 
His proposal has garnered an interesting mix of support. Public endorsements of the proposals have come from United Parcel Service (UPS); the Association of Equipment Manufacturers; American Society of Civil Engineers; U.S. Chamber of Commerce; National AFL-CIO; and – wait for it – AAA (formerly the American Automobile Association).  
Kathleen Bower, vice president of public affairs for AAA,  said about the increase  that, “[t]hough it would be easier to simply kick the can down the road… The country desperately needs additional funding for infrastructure and, for the moment, there is no better means than the fuel tax. The proposed increase is well overdue and in line with what most experts suggest would be appropriate.”  
It’s going to be a tough sale but Blumenauer hopes that emphasizing that those who benefit most from the tax are those that will bear the burden of the increase might win some support in Congress. He can, however, expect those taxpayers to yell the loudest. With the average driver in the U.S. tackling  13,476 miles each year , the increase would cost drivers more than $80 in additional gas taxes per year (assuming a  24.6 mpg average ). That would be nearly double the current rates: at those averages, taxpayers now pay just over $100 in federal gas taxes. Males ages 35-54 will be hit the hardest since statistically, they put more miles on the road (about 40% more than the average).  
The UPDATE Act has been moved to committee where it now sits. There are no co-sponsors. That’s not terribly surprisingly since it’s not expected to be a popular bill and I’m guessing that members of Congress may be reticent to publicly attach themselves to the bill: that’s not the same, however, as not supporting the bill. And as more companies like UPS and AAA speak up – not to mention those powerful unions -  the likelihood of additional support increases. Ultimately, the question will be whether red ink will override popular sentiment. We may be about to find out.  
–  
Want more taxgirl goodness? Pick your poison: You can  receive posts by email , follow me on twitter ( @taxgirl )  hang out with me on Facebook  and  check out my YouTube channel . You can also  subscribe to the podcast  on the site or  via iTunes  (it’s free). 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Former GM Exec Bob Lutz Suggests Higher Gas Taxes Would Help Americans
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Kelly Phillips Erb 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Federal Gas Tax Passes Another Milestone: What Is The Future?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Kelly Phillips Erb 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Which State Pays Most In Gas Taxes?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Kelly Phillips Erb 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kellyphillipserb/2013/12/04/will-congress-drive-up-gas-taxes-in-2014/