         

         


         
             Pharma  &  Healthcare 
         
         | 
     
        12/04/2013 @ 6:40PM
             | 2,280 views
     
		 Katie Couric Promotes Anticancer Vaccine Alarmism 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    6 comments, 6 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  
   
    Katie Couric (with Fred Thompson) (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Yesterday,  Katie Couric , who evidently has slipped out of her role as journalist and into a role as a television personality, tweeted the following:  

  V interesting debate going on re: Wed’s ep on HPV vaccine controversy! We’re hoping to tell both sides so parents can make informed decision 
 
What her tweet referenced was a segment that aired today on Couric’s  daytime talk show  about the vaccine for HPV (human papilloma virus), a vaccine that literally prevents cancer. Cancers, plural, actually, given that, according to University of California law professor Dorit Reiss, HPV is responsible  

  for nearly all the cervical cancers in the United States and for “90% of anal cancers, 40% of vulvar, vaginal, or penile cancers, and 12% of oral and pharyngeal cancers.” ( all data is available here .) 
 
I responded to Couric’s tweet by saying that when it comes to evidence, this issue has only one side and that suggesting otherwise is false equivalence, giving equal weight to arguments that don’t carry equal weight of evidence. As Seth Mnookin, author of  The Panic Virus ,  tells us  

  A study published in the British Medical Journal in October evaluated 997,000 girls, 296,000 of whom had received at least one dose of the HPV vaccine. More than 150,000 of those girls received all three doses. The results? Absolutely no link to short- or long-term  health  problems. As Lisen Arnheim-Dahlstr m, the lead researcher on the study, told Reuters Health , “There were not really any concerns before our study and no new ones after.” 
 
Couric responded to my tweets with  

  I’d love for you to watch the show and then let me know what you think. 
 
Here’s what I think. I think that if HPV didn’t carry the dual emotional and cultural baggage of being a vaccine that prevents a sexually transmitted viral infection and being initially rolled out for tweenage girls, we wouldn’t be having this discussion.  
As someone who had a large precancerous colon polyp removed when I was relatively young, I have long been a fan of Couric for  highlighting  colonoscopies  as a way to ID polyps before they become cancerous–and of avoiding the fate of her husband, who died of colon cancer at a terribly young age. And I also think that if this discussion were about a vaccine that prevented colon cancer, or any cancer other than cervical, anal, and oral cancers caused by a sexually transmitted virus, the tenor of Couric’s segment would have been very, very different.  
In reality, as Amanda Marcotte writes at Slate, it focused on anecdote and emotion  and failed utterly to highlight what the evidence shows in favor of the safety and effectiveness of the HPV vaccine. Forbes writer  Matthew Herper notes  that Couric underplayed the vaccine’s effectiveness and the risk of HPV-related cancers and overplayed emotion and Pap smears as preventative (of course, those don’t screen for anal or oral cancers). I don’t think that Couric necessarily brought this baggage to the table herself, but as a journalist, she should have recognized that it was there and cut through it to emphasize the facts.  
Couric’s popularity and profile were sufficient to make colonoscopies OK to discuss at the dinner table, and I imagine that I’m not alone in my awareness of them thanks to her own  on-air procedure  and the publicity it received. Lives may well have been saved because of her name recognition and promotion. What will the balance become, I have to wonder, now that she has used her profile instead in ways that may very well influence parents to opt out of a life-saving anti-cancer vaccine for their children? 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Four Ways Katie Couric Stacked The Deck Against Gardasil
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Matthew Herper 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Here Is How We Know Gardasil Has Not Killed 100 People
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Matthew Herper 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
             
             
                    More On Why The Adverse Event Reports On Gardasil Don't Point To A Problem
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Matthew Herper 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Katie Couric And Cervical Cancer Prevention With The HPV Vaccines, Gardasil And Cervarix
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     David Kroll 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/emilywillingham/2013/12/04/katie-couric-promotes-anticancer-vaccine-alarmism/