         

         


         
             SportsMoney 
         
         | 
     
        12/04/2013 @ 9:38PM
             | 808 views
     
		 2013 SEC Championship Tickets Down 34% This Week. Cheapest In Last Four Years. 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
After a spike in prices following the dramatic Iron Bowl finish, prices for  SEC Championship tickets  have dropped significantly, according to our data at TiqIQ.  The game now costs less than either of the two biggest SEC rivalry games last weekend, and just $120 more than  Big Ten Championship tickets . It is now the least expensive SEC championship over the last four years.  At current prices, it’s just the 15th most expensive game of the season–one spot below last week’s Iron Bowl.  
With an average price of $338 and a get-in price of $202, it’s still the most expensive of the major conference championship games this weekend. The next lowest SEC championship game had a $440 average in 2011, and if prices continue to drop, the 2013 edition could dip below the $300 mark.  That would be over a half-price discount to the 2010 and 2012 games, in which the average price was over $600 for what were effectively National Championship Semifinal games.  
 
This year, with Auburn entering at No. 3 and Missouri at No. 5, neither team will get into the title game with a win alone, and it’s very possible that 2013 will be the first BCS National Championship Game since 2007 to not feature an SEC team. With a loss by Florida State or Ohio State, however, the winner of this game would be the next in line to play in Pasadena on January 6.  In the highly unlikely event that both of those teams lose and Auburn wins, the national championship could be a rematch of the Iron Bowl.  
As much as that would be a dream come true for Alabama fans, it’s all but a dream.  For now, Mizzou and Auburn have national championship aspirations and if the game is anywhere close to the excitement level of Auburn’s last two games, it will be one for the ages. Despite the fact that Missouri is 500 miles farther from Atlanta than Auburn, searches on TiqIQ.com for the SEC Championship have been almost evenly split. At a minimum, there will be 16,000 Missouri fans there, which is the number of tickets distributed by their athletic department.  30,000 would be a strong turnout. At a capacity of 71,000, even with 30,000, the Georgia Dome will feel a lot more like Jordan Hare than Faurout Field, where Missouri plays their home games.  
Even in what will be a hostile environment, the SEC championship marks an ascension to the elite tier of college football for Missouri. Two years ago, along with Texas A M, they moved into the SEC in one of the most publicized conference realignments in history.  After last year, though, the world thought that Texas A M would be competing for the SEC championship, not Mizzou.  Instead, it’s a battle of the Tigers, and it could be the best value for a college football game this season.  
For a breakdown of the impact of last weekend on BCS National Championship tickets,  visit the TiqIQ Blog . 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/jesselawrence/2013/12/04/2013-sec-championship-tickets-down-34-this-week-now-cheapest-in-last-four-years/