         

         


         
             Personal Finance 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 12:16PM
             | 8 views
     
		 8 Red Flags To Watch Out For On A Job Interview 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
By Pauline Millard  
Sure, job interviews are nerve-racking—especially if it’s a role you really want.  
But when you’re in the throes of printing out r sum s, rehearsing answers and making sure your interview outfit is culturally on-cue, don’t forget to observe what you can about the company, and your interviewer too.  
Because there’s one little-heralded truth about job interviews: They’re a two-way street, and paying attention as you go through the process can show you a lot about what working there might really be like.  
Recent college grad Nihad Peavler, 23, thought she’d found the perfect job when she heard about a role assisting a film producer on a major project. It seemed so glamorous!  
Then, in the interview, her would-be boss swore like a trooper, and couldn’t get Nihad’s name right, saying it “was too ethnic.” Despite her misgivings, Peavler took the position. She lasted all of four months. And it turned out those first few clues were just the tip of the proverbial iceberg.  
“She was like the boss in ‘The Devil Wears  Prada   Prada ,’ except not as important,” she now says, wryly.  
And, if you keep your wits about you, you can determine a lot about the job you’re gunning for by reading between the lines. Of course, job number-one is to impress your interviewer and make them want you—you can always decline the offer if it doesn’t feel like a fit. But don’t forget to take stock while you’re busy knocking their socks off.  
“An interview should be an employer’s best day,” says Dana Manciagli, a career expert and consultant in Seattle, “so candidates should pay close attention to anything that seems amiss. If things aren’t right at the interview, it can only go downhill from there, and you’ll likely end up looking for another job.”  
Here are eight red flags to pay attention to before you sign on the dotted line.  
1. Your interviewer is very late.  
“Not respecting someone’s time isn’t just rude, it’s bad for business,” says Manciagli. Sure, scheduling mishaps happen, but she points out that interviews are often scheduled with plenty of lead time, and most hiring managers should give themselves at least 15 minutes of prep before someone comes in. For your interviewer to sidle in considerably later than you agreed on, without an ounce of contrition, is a major red flag. “If they’re this rude at the interview, imagine how they would be as a manager,” she notes.  
2. She badmouths the person you’d be replacing.  
While it’s appropriate for your interviewer to talk about current roles in the department, or how it’s structured, be wary of any hiring manager who badmouths someone who just left the company, or the boss she currently works for.  
“No hiring manager should ever speak ill about the person they are replacing. That shows poor character and judgment and also speaks poorly of the organization,” says Melissa Gentile, a recruiter in New York City.  
3. The hiring manager hasn’t reviewed your r sum . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Financial Comebacks: How I Bounced Back From A Money Disaster
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     LearnVest 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How Social Is Changing Business -- And Your Job Search
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     The Muse 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/learnvest/2013/12/10/8-red-flags-to-watch-out-for-on-a-job-interview/