         

         


         
             Op/Ed 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 12:07PM
             | 54 views
     
		 Why Not Raise The Minimum Wage To $100 An Hour? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Fast food workers are  hitting the streets  in cities across the country, walking out from their jobs, demanding higher wages. Many of these protesters want $15 an hour. President Obama and other Democrats decreed $10.10 is the correct minimum wage for now, up from the current federal standard of $7.25. That would be  a whopping 39 percent pay increase .  
 
  
   
    Money (Photo credit: 401(K) 2013) 
   
 
As a former fast food worker whose parents took temporary welfare assistance during my childhood, my heart is with them. But facts prove their protests ring hollow.  At its core, a minimum wage hike is a temporary, Band-aid fix to a deeper, chronic problem.  And it  generates unintended consequences  that ripple far beyond that temporary fix, including  encouraging teenagers to drop out of school  to pursue those tantalizing, higher-wage jobs. In a rhetorical war where the left employs demagoguery about the lives of low-income workers, the right can show it’s fighting for holistic, empowering approaches to improving quality of life for these folks.  
Proponents for $10.10 don’t exactly say where that number comes from; it’s an increase that grossly exceeds productivity strides among minimum wage workers. So tongue in cheek, I ask why not raise it to $100 while we’re in the business of throwing out random wages? Obviously no serious factions are lobbying for this, but the left is lathering up a slippery wage slope. They essentially want to impose controls on the price of labor; we know Richard Nixon’s well-meaning price controls turned into a  botched social experiment .  
Some say $10.10 is roughly where wages would be if they followed inflation, though this doesn’t take into account the inflationary domino effect that would be triggered by a nationwide jump in prices resulting from the wage hike. Its well-intentioned premise fails to protect against the likely hundreds of thousands of jobs lost and billions shaved from real GDP under an artificial wage bump,  effects modeled out  by The Heritage Foundation’s James Sherk and John Ligon.  
During his speech calling for wage hikes, Obama claimed the minimum wage, “in real terms right now is below where it was when Harry Truman was in office.” Yet the non-partisan site  PolitiFact.com found  Obama’s claim applied to just one year of Truman’s eight-year presidency (the sixth year, 1950). Obama’s misleading speech also ignores the fact that his proposed $10.10 wage would be a 53 percent increase over the  $6.62 average real-wage since 1950 .  Our economy obviously would crumble if all workers demanded a 53 percent hike for their labor .  
Taking a step down from the heated, Ivory-tower  jousting between economists  let’s boil down the purpose of minimum wage increases: to make life better for those floundering in the low-income end of the labor pool. Take for example, Akilarose Thompson, the 24-year-old, African-American woman interviewed by  The Guardian  who, until a recent three-cent pay increase, has supported her 18-month-old baby on a McDonald’s minimum wage and food bank donations. Thompson told The Guardian that to make ends meet she took a time-consuming second job that caused her to drop her collegiate studies in homeopathy. “It would be life changing,” she said of her desired pay raise, which she believes would enable her to escape a drug-infested neighborhood. Yet Thompson’s difficult struggles could be exacerbated by the wage she’s seeking. Capitalistic forces reward what an individual contributes to the economy; artificially hiking Thompson’s pay could move the goal post further from her reach, since there’s a very real chance she could lose her job entirely. Minimum wage hikes tend to hurt the youngest, most vulnerable employees, so Thompson’s life quality would slip further as her more seasoned co-workers receive that pay bump and she gets a pink slip.  
Democrats’ rhetoric tries for the moral high ground. But it’s naive. Functioning markets are inherently morally neutral, like a machine or computer.That’s what makes them work. Leftists want to tinker with the economic machine, and their results crush human ingenuity and flourishing. It would be like a non-scientist telling a lab expert to insert a serum into her vaccine because he thinks it’s morally right. The resulting vaccine is toxic, despite his venerable intentions.  
What’s actually moral is letting markets to function as freely as possible and helping disadvantaged players get the skills they need to advance beyond low-skill jobs. The political right effectively promotes the entrepreneurial spirit for those who understand the economic machine. But it can better help people like Thompson get the tools she needs to empower herself by understanding the economic machine. Obama’s publicly supported the exciting promise of tools like massive open online courses (MOOCs), which allow people like Thompson to study and understand the economic engine for an industry of her choosing. Obama’s energy fighting for $10.10 is better spent fighting for a reformed education system, particularly an economic education system, since  pityingly few students  get business and economic training in schools to lift themselves from poverty.  
Even if he wasn’t a teetotaler, Americans didn’t want a beer with Mitt Romney. But he was the candidate who could run a beer brewery operation like nobody’s business. The right needs people with Romney’s technocratic economic prowess coupled with Ronald Reagan’s soaring optimism to make the moral case for leaving labor markets alone and giving low-income people the powerful educational tools they need to create solutions for a lifetime instead of bouncing from one artificially-inflated paycheck to the next. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/carriesheffield/2013/12/10/why-not-raise-the-minimum-wage-to-100-an-hour/