         

         


         
             Investing 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 12:03PM
             | 17 views
     
		 A.M. Kitco Metals Roundup: Gold Solidly Up On Short Covering, Bargain Hunting; Bears Appear Exhausted 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
  ( Kitco News ) -  Gold prices are solidly higher and hit a three-week high in early U.S. trading Tuesday, boosted on more short covering and bargain hunting following recent downside pressure. After their recent successes, the gold and silver market bears appear to have become exhausted. The key “outside markets” are also in a bullish daily posture for the precious metals Tuesday, as the U.S. dollar index is lower and crude oil prices are higher. February gold was last up $21.10 at $1,255.20 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted up $15.80 at $1256.75. March Comex silver last traded up $0.519 at $20.225 an ounce.  
  In overnight news, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said the EU is not headed for a deflationary debacle like that of Japan—even though EU inflation is very low and is expected to remain that way for quite some time. His comments suggest the ECB will keep its very easy money policies for a long time to come.  
  Traders and investors are looking forward to next week’s meeting (Dec. 17-18) of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee (FOMC). Recent upbeat U.S. economic data, including a stronger-than-expected U.S. jobs report last Friday, suggest the Fed might move up its timeline for implementing a tapering of its monthly bond-buying program, also called quantitative easing, including some who think the Fed will announce a tapering at next week’s FOMC meeting. The steady drumbeat of speculation on the precise timing of Fed tapering has done two things to the market place: One, it has numbed traders and investors to the actual event, which is likely to lessen its significance when it does actually occur. And two, the markets have already mostly factored into their price structures the Fed tapering, when it does occur. The actual surprise to the market place now would be a string of weak U.S. economic data that puts off Fed tapering for several months—but that is unlikely.  
  U.S. economic data due for release Tuesday includes the Manpower quarterly employment survey, the weekly Goldman Sachs and Johnson Redbook retail sales reports, and the ISM semiannual report on business.  
  Related Stories At Kitco News:  
   
   Deutsche Bank: Bearish Gold, Bullish Platinum As Lower Crude Oil Prices May Fuel Economic Growth  
   Platinum Seen Steady To Higher In 2014; Another Supply Deficit Forecast  
   Higher Prices, Not Surprising  
   
  Wyckoff’s Daily Risk Rating: 5.0  (There is not much in the way of important worldwide economic data due out until next week’s FOMC meeting. Thus, trading activity is likely to be more subdued until the middle of next week.)  
  (Wyckoff’s Daily Risk Rating  is your way to quickly gauge investor risk appetite in the world market place each day .  Each day I assess the “risk-on” or “risk-off” trader mentality in the market place with a numerical reading of 1 to 10, with 1 being least risk-averse (most risk-on) and 10 being the most risk-averse (risk-off), and 5 being neutral.  
  The London A.M. gold fix is $1,245.75 versus the previous P.M. fixing of $1,237.00.  
  Technically, February gold futures bears still have the overall near-term technical advantage. However, a six-week-old downtrend on the daily bar chart has been negated. The gold bulls’ next upside near-term price breakout objective is to produce a close above technical resistance at $1,275.00. Bears’ next near-term downside breakout price objective is closing prices below technical support at $1,200.00. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $1,260.10 and then at $1,270.00. First support is seen at $1,250.00 and then at the overnight low of $1,237.40.   
  March silver futures bears still have the overall near-term technical advantage, but prices did hit a two-week high Tuesday. A six-week-old downtrend on the daily bar chart has been negated. Silver bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above solid technical resistance at $20.35 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the June low of $18.60. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $20.265 and then at $20.35. Next support is seen at $20.00 and then at the overnight low of $19.74.  
  Read the latest news in gold and precious metals markets at   Kitco News.  
  Follow me on Twitter to immediately get the very latest market developments.  If you are not on board, then you are not getting key analysis and perspective as fast or as often as you could! Follow me on Twitter to get my very timely intra-day and after-hours briefs on precious metals price action. The precious markets will remain very active. If you want market analysis fast,  and in after-hours trading ,  then follow my up-to-the-second precious metals market perspective on Twitter. It’s free, too. My account is @jimwyckoff. By Jim Wyckoff, contributing to Kitco News;  jwyckoff@kitco.com  




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kitconews/2013/12/10/a-m-kitco-metals-roundup-gold-solidly-up-on-short-covering-bargain-hunting-bears-appear-exhausted/