         

         


         
             Business 
         
         | 
     
        12/09/2013 @ 8:59AM
             | 141,568 views
     
		 Adam Sandler Tops Forbes' 2013 List Of The Most Overpaid Actors 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    23 comments, 18 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Adam Sandler  is one of the few actors in Hollywood who can still demand a paycheck north of $15 million. That’s great for his bank account but not always so great for the studios that employ him. A string of recent misfires lands the funny man at the top of our most overpaid list.  

  The Most Overpaid Actors 
 
The two biggest offenders on Sandler’s resume:  Jack   Jill , in which he played both halves of a brother-sister twin set, and  That’s My Boy , in which Sandler (47) played the father of Andy Samberg (35).  Jack   Jill  grossed $150 million but the film cost an estimated $80 million to make. Considering studios take home about half of box office receipts, that means only about $70 million flowed to  Sony   Sony , which also had to pay to advertise the stinker. That kind of return didn’t justify Sandler’s large upfront pay.  
That’s My Boy  did even worse. With an estimated budget of $70 million, the film brought in only $57 million at the box office worldwide. In other words, it was a major bomb. We estimate that for every dollar Sandler was paid on his last three movies, the films returned an average of $3.40.  
Of course when a Sandler movie hits, his pay can be justified. The problem for Hollywood is that telling a hit from a miss before the movie is made is almost impossible. But with someone like Sandler, you have to pay up hoping that the movie will do big business at the box office. Sony won that bet with  Grown Ups 2 . That movie grossed $246 million on an estimated $80 million budget, making it one of Sandler’s best performing films. Our research for this list comes from our  Celebrity 100  work though so we are only counting movie that came out before June.  Grown Ups 2  hit theaters in July.  
Still, one has to wonder if it’s worth continuing to pay Sandler’s huge upfront fees in the hopes that his next film will be a hit when it seems audiences might be getting tired of Sandler’s shtick. Don’t be surprised if studios start asking him to take less upfront in favor of a heftier chunk of the back end if the film is a hit, or if the actor starts trying to do more animated work. The cartoon  Hotel Transylvania  was the biggest hit of his career, grossing $358 million at the box office worldwide.  
To compile our list we looked at the last three movies each actor starred in over the three years to June 1. Actors don’t make as many films as they used to so that first criteria eliminated a lot of folks right away. Drew Barrymore, who has appeared on our overpaid list in past years, was disqualified this year because she didn’t have enough films in our time frame.  
Looking at pay, movie budgets and expenses, we calculated a return on investment number for each star and then averaged those numbers to get an overall return.  
Close behind Sandler in second place is Katherine Heigl. For every dollar she was paid Heigl returned an average of $3.50. After films like  27 Dresses  Heigl was heralded as the new queen of romantic comedies. She started demanding a big upfront fee and studios were willing to pay it … until flops like  Killers  and  One for the Money .  
Reese Witherspoon ranks third with an average $3.90 return for every $1 she gets paid. Witherspoon is currently reinventing her career. She’s been smartly buying up hot, female-centric books for her production company. We will see more of Witherspoon behind the scenes in the coming years although she’s starring in  Wild , the best-selling book about Cheryl Strayed’s 1,000 mile solo hike. Expect Witherspoon to take a huge pay cut for her own movies.  
Kevin James make our list for the first time in fifth place. The actor actually ranked on our  Best Actors for the Buck  list last year with an average return of $22.40 for every dollar he was paid. This year his return falls to $6.10 because of  Here Comes the Boom . The film, about a teacher who tries to become a mixed martial arts fighter to raise money for his school, grossed only $73 million at the box office worldwide.  
Another new comer to our list this year is Steve Carell. The comedian had a major misfire with  The Incredible Burt Wonderstone.  The film grossed just $22 million at the box office worldwide. We estimate that for for every dollar he was paid Carell returned an average $10, ranking him seventh on our list.  
Follow me on Twitter at  DorothyatForbes .  





	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






	 



        	 
                	 
                    	10 images
						 
                	 
				 
			 
         
        	 Photos:  Celebrities 2013: Highest Paid Actors
         


		 
			 
				 

                     Scott Mendelson 
                     Contributor 
			 
		 
	 



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Movie Sequels Nobody Wants (At Least In America), But Hollywood Is Making Anyway
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Todd Gilchrist 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Can Kids Help Adam Sandler Turn Around His Losing Streak?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Dorothy Pomerantz 
	                     Forbes Staff 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/dorothypomerantz/2013/12/09/adam-sandler-tops-our-list-of-the-most-overpaid-actors/