         

         


         
             Tech 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 10:49AM
             | 6,230 views
     
		 It May Be Time For Nintendo To Make Games, Not Consoles 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                    36 comments, 14 called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
 
It’s a little worrisome, writing this post. The opinion I’m about to put forth is one that can get you laughed out of game journalism, and one few people in the industry will even entertain. It’s the idea that Nintendo has lost their way when it comes to the home console game, and they should pivot to their obvious strength that has carried them through lackluster systems for more than a decade now, their incredible games. In short, the Wii U should be Nintendo’s last console, and they should start focusing on bringing their beloved stable of characters to as many households as humanly possible, across every competitor system from Microsoft to Sony to PC. I don’t relish writing columns I know for a fact will get me mocked or insulted, yet here I am, and I’ll attempt to explain this as rationally as I can.  
I’m hardly the first person to propose this, and I’ve read  similar suggestions  that have been blasted apart by journalists and fans alike  for years now . With the Wii U continuing to struggle there’s a resurgence of the issue, with Chris Kohler’s Wired piece  “What the Hell is Wrong with Nintendo?”  and my own colleague Erik Kain’s follow-up to that article,  “How Do You Solve a Problem Like the Wii U?”  
After reading both, I have my doubts about either of their remedies for what ails Nintendo. Kohler’s primary argument is that Nintendo is being held back by the expensive gamepad, which is adding at least another $100 to the price of the system while offering little value to players at it’s an increasingly optional part of gameplay. His suggestion is to divorce the Wii U from the gamepad and sell it for much, much cheaper than its Xbox One and PS4 competition from Microsoft and Sony.  
I disagree with this notion. Take away the Wii U’s gamepad, and the price doesn’t matter. Why? Because even if you’re selling the system at $200, that’s about how much used/discounted Xbox 360s and PS3s are currently going for now that this new generation has arrived. The Wii U has graphical capabilities on par with those systems, and well below its next-gen competition. Price it that low with no gamepad and you’re simply selling a decidedly last-gen system that happens to sell new Nintendo games. Few people want to buy a brand new piece of technology that already feels five years old.  
It’s important to keep in mind it’s not only about “games looking better” when we reference the power of a system, which will be mentioned frequently throughout this piece. The other factor at play is that if your system isn’t living up to the current next-gen standards, third party companies will simply abandon you altogether as it’s too much work to be downscaling fully next-gen games to run on what is now in effect “older architecture,” even if it’s your brand new pride and joy. Not to mention they’ll do the same if they feel pigeonholed into jamming in motion controls or gamepad features into games that don’t really need them. Whatever third party games do manage to make it to your system are almost certainly better on your competitor’s machines. It happened with the Wii and history is repeating itself with the Wii U. Can you imagine a Sony or Microsoft system that had to survive almost entirely on its exclusives alone? I’d be writing articles likes this about them as well.  
Erik Kain has another idea for Nintendo, one that runs completely in the opposite direction. He wants them to more or less acknowledge the failure of the Wii U and start immediately thinking about their next console, the “Super Wii.” He says that after a few years in development, it could debut in the middle of this new console generation as a system more advanced than either Microsoft’s Xbox One or Sony’s PS4, offering free online service and guaranteed 1080p 60 fps titles with boatloads of third party support.  
I love this idea, in theory, as obviously it sounds like the dream console the Wii U should have been. Unfortunately, I think in practice it’s something of an impossibility. Even given a few more years, I don’t believe that Nintendo is capable of developing a console that outperforms the Xbox One or PS4. It took the better part of six years of the Wii’s lifecycle for them to develop the Wii U, which barely outperforms the Xbox 360 and PS3 at best. Nintendo has never demonstrated that they’re able to be ahead of the technology curve compared to its competition, and I don’t see any way that’s going to change. Rather, their systems have succeeded for one reason and one reason only, their games.  
It’s time to admit a simple truth. Nintendo has not made a good video game console in three generations now.  
Now, before you start yelling, this statement is going to need some clarification. I’m speaking about the Wii U, Wii and Gamecube, as before that, Nintendo was more or less on their A-game and hardware wasn’t as much of an issue. And “good” is referring to the technical capabilities of the console and supposed gameplay “innovations,” not the games released for the systems.  
I am not suggesting Nintendo  completely  remove themselves from the hardware game. They have done very well with handhelds, and it would be silly to abandon that portion of the market at this point, even with the rise of smartphones and tablets. At this point saying Nintendo should jettison their popular portables and sell Pokemon as a $2.99 app is a bridge too far and an idea that often sinks this entire argument, so I’m speaking only of their home consoles here.  
 
Taking the games out of the equation, each of Nintendo’s past three consoles were inferior to their competition. The Wii U is a last-gen system from a power perspective as we’ve discussed already. The original Wii was similarly far behind the 360 and PS3. The Gamecube was more powerful relative to its generational competition, but still didn’t fare well against the blockbuster PS2. The N64 vs. original PlayStation divide isn’t quite as stark, so I’m hesitant to say the situation was equivalent and I’m leaving them out. But that was over 15 years ago now, and I want to focus more on Nintendo’s more recent generations where this problem has slowly mutated into something ugly.  
In the end, the Gamecube was regarded as a relative a miss for Nintendo despite all our fond memories of Mario Sunshine and Smash Bros. Melee, and the Wii U seems to be following that same path. The main reason Nintendo has any credibility in the console game right now was how badly the original Wii trounced the competition in the last generation in terms of worldwide sales when everyone underestimated how that system would perform.  
But I think it’s become clear to most the Wii was a fluke, a fad, and I’m willing to call it a creative failure despite its sales numbers. It only created the  illusion  Nintendo had executed some grand master plan to win the decade, when really they just sort of stumbled into it. Admittedly, Nintendo did an expert job convincing non-gamers from toddlers to grandparents that they  must  own a Wii to play virtual golf or tennis by swinging a Wiimote. People of all age groups and backgrounds had a blast playing games like those on their newly bought, relatively inexpensive Wiis.  
For a month, maybe two.  
   After that? There was no big conversion. Non-gamers didn’t magically start buying traditional video game titles and playing their Wiis regularly like gamers were playing their 360s and PS3s. Most hastily purchased Wiis started collecting dust, never to be turned on again.  
Nor did Nintendo change the video game landscape with its “innovative” motion controls. Outside of its sports titles, motion controls did not catch on, and most gamers would agree nearly every game is better without them, even those games designed expressly for that purpose. Microsoft tried to expand on the motion idea with Kinect, but again, outside of a few niche genre titles, motion control has not changed the industry significantly at this point.  
The problem with the Wii is that you can’t repeat a fluke. You can’t predict a fad. Nintendo thought their Wii U gamepad would be the same sort of game changer for their new system. But this time, the concept didn’t prove its worth to the types of non-gamers who shelled out for the Wii, the type that never touched the system again after the initial fun of digital bowling faded. Nintendo may have attracted millions of new customers with the Wii, but because the system was indeed lackluster at its core when the concept of motion control was revealed to be two-dimensional, they didn’t retain any of their newfound non-gaming fans, and lost the trust of much of their hardcore audience in the process.  
All of this leads me to the conclusion that Nintendo simply cannot keep up in the hardware game. If the justification for their underpowered, gimmick-reliant systems generation after generation is that “well, they have good games,” then why the hell doesn’t Nintendo just focus on what they do best? Making games?  
Going back to Kohler’s piece, he says this is a “poison pill” for Nintendo, and would surely seal their fate.  
“Nintendo’s games sell millions of copies  because  it makes hardware, not in  spite  of that. The idea that Mario on Xbox would sell Call of Duty numbers is a pipe dream.”  
I couldn’t disagree with this more, and I don’t understand where this notion comes from. Nintendo’s hardware is consistently worse than that of its competition. Outside of the obvious performance and graphical issues, their recent gameplay gimmicks like motion control and the gamepad often make their games worse than they would be otherwise, while driving the price of the system up. It’s why Kohler himself says Nintendo should rid itself of the Wii U’s gamepad to move more units.  
 
But still, despite obviously inferior hardware, people still buy Nintendo systems and love them. Why? Because they love the games, not necessarily the system. If this isn’t the definition of selling games  in spite  of hardware rather than  because  of it, I don’t know what is. It’s why people are constantly saying that Nintendo needs “system sellers” to get the Wii U back on track. They need to make games so good, people overlook that the system itself is physically inferior to its competition in nearly every way. I keep repeating this and it may sound harsh, but it’s an inescapable, technological fact.  
I also cannot believe the statement that Nintendo wouldn’t sell millions of copies of games in its many beloved series were they available across Sony’s PS4, Microsoft Xbox One or the PC. You can point to numbers like Super Mario World barely moving over a 100,000 copies at launch, but the primary reason for that is  because the Wii U is selling so terribly .  
You can’t tell me that if Nintendo was suddenly a software-only company they wouldn’t be one of the biggest games in town right alongside EA and Activision. Imagine if the Xbox One or PS4 launched with a new Zelda or Metroid title. They would have been some of the best selling launch games by a mile. We wouldn’t be talking about how poorly the Wii U is selling, we’d be reporting on how excellent Nintendo’s latest games are and how well they’re selling across all platforms.  
Every time this is mentioned, the conversation always turns to SEGA. After struggling to be competitive in the console market in the Dreamcast era, SEGA went software only. Though they’re still around, after being a former titan of the industry, they’re barely relevant anymore, content to pair Sonic with his former rival Mario in Olympic-themed Wii games.  
But we need to be clear about something. Nintendo is not SEGA. Mario is not Sonic. Not only is Mario a much more storied franchise that has kept making consistently fantastic games for decades while Sonic slowly got worse over time, it’s that Nintendo’s stable is  so much more  than just Mario. SEGA had Sonic, and maybe Shinobi, Crazy Taxi, Jet Set Radio and Panzer Dragoon if you’re feeling nostalgic. Nintendo has Mario and Zelda, Kirby, Metroid, Donkey Kong, Kirby, Yoshi, Earthbound, Pikmin, Pokemon, Mario Kart, Smash Bros,  all  beloved series and household names that have stood the test of time, and a huge catalog to draw from if Nintendo was allowed to spend its resources only designing games instead of tearing their hair out about Wii U sales and trying to guess which new controller-based gimmick might save them.  
Nintendo does not make competitive consoles anymore, and their abysmal marketing only makes things worse. They’re only saved by the extremely high quality first-party games made for their systems, and the obvious outlier of the meteoric Wii fad.  
It’s sad to see a game as good as Super Mario 3D World sell only 100,000 copies at launch. It’s unfortunate that I can’t play the new Super Smash Bros. or Zelda unless I shell out $300 for a system with no third party support, last-generation graphics and a gamepad I don’t even want to use.  
But if Nintendo simply let go of their home console dreams (as I said, they can stay in the handheld market, which they still seem to understand), they could become a hugely powerful 3rd party force with more clout than EA or Activision, if they’re able to consistently produce amazing games like they have since their inception. Their hardware is holding them back, preventing them from making boatloads of money through cross platform software, and depriving gamers of playing amazing titles because they don’t want to own a technologically lackluster console when there are much better options on the market.  
   I don’t know why saying this makes me a pariah in the gaming industry. It’s not a forecast of doom and gloom, it’s a path for Nintendo to live on indefinitely, retaining their status as a creator of the best video games on the market while free from the expectations of consoles that simply can’t keep pace with their rivals. I’m not saying it’s the  only  way forward for Nintendo, but I also don’t think the switch to software would be the deathblow for the company everyone thinks it would be. When you’re only meeting 5% of your console sales projections in a given year, I think the Wii U itself is more likely to be the executioner’s axe than anything I’m proposing here.  
I love Nintendo. I want nothing more than to see them thrive for as long as video games exist. But I don’t think it’s necessarily the worst thing in the world if they live on doing the thing they do best, making games, rather than home consoles. Nearly all the beloved memories you have of Nintendo are from the amazing original games they’ve produced, not the systems that played them. It’s hard to extract one from the other, but if you think about it, you know it’s true. I’m a lifelong Nintendo fan who had to abandon the brand because the games were no longer worth putting up with the increasingly irritating hardware. But I would buy a copy of every single Nintendo game the moment they were released for my Xbox or PlayStation, and I suspect I’m not alone.  
Follow me on Twitter , subscribe to my Forbes feed , and pick up a copy of my sci-fi novel, The Last Exodus , and its sequel, The Exiled Earthborn . 




	 
		 
			 Move up http://i.forbesimg.com t 
			 Move down 
		 






         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How Do You Solve A Problem Like The Wii U?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Erik Kain 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Who Will Buy A $500 Steam Machine?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    How Do You Solve A Problem Like Nintendo?
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         



         
             
                 
                 
                         
             
             
                    Six Reasons We Shouldn't Count Out the Wii U Yet
             


	             
	            		 
	                	 

	                     Paul Tassi 
	                     Contributor 
	                 
	             
         

     



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2013/12/10/it-may-be-time-for-nintendo-to-make-games-not-consoles/