         

         


         
             Business 
         
         | 
     
        12/10/2013 @ 11:30AM
             | 178 views
     
		 The New War Between The States Centers On Air Pollution 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
It’s a civil war of a different nature. It’s one that is pitting the northeastern states against their brethren in the Midwest and the East Coast. A slew of environmental regulations are now hitting the courts, especially those that would try to limit the dirty air that travels across state lines.  
 
  
   
    U.S. Supreme Court building. (Photo credit: Wikipedia) 
   
 
Today, the U.S. Supreme Court is hearing oral arguments into whether the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency can limit the amount of pollutants leading to smog and acid rain that emanate from one state so as to prevent those would-be releases from traveling upwind to other states. States such as Delaware and Maryland, for example, are telling regulators that much of the pollution inside of their borders has come from major coal-producing states.  
As expected, industry and environmentalists have their own perspectives on the issue. Coal producers and the utilities that primarily use the fuel source say that even tougher restrictions on coal plants would put some facilities out of business and thereby hamper reliability.  
It’s an expensive solution that would hurt the country’s broader economy, says Hal Quinn, head of the  National Mining Association .   He says that next year’s compliance date is unreasonable. The so-called Cross-state Air Pollution Rule would require utilities to limit their emissions from nitrogen oxide that leads to smog and sulfur dioxide that causes acid rain by forcing them to install new equipment. Among those most affected:  American Electric   American Electric  Power,  FirstEnergy   FirstEnergy  Corp. and  Southern Co   Southern Co .  
Conversely, those in the green community, such as  Earth Justice , say that the rule is necessary to protect the health and welfare of those who don’t live in coal states but who must breath the air that travels upwind. “After years of delay, the time is long overdue for these urgently needed safeguards,” says the group’s president, Trip Van Noppen. Critics of the coal-fired utilities have long complained that they dragged their collective feet when they could have been investing in best-available technologies.  
Some history: The Cross-State Air Pollution Rule was enacted in July 2011 and it was to take effect in January 2012. But the  D.C. Court of Appeals  suspended the regulation, all based on the lawsuit brought by the states and the utilities. If this law would have been allowed to stand, it would have affected 28 states and replaced one written in 2005 by the Bush administration — one that the same court said in 2008 was insufficient.  
The court forced EPA to go back to the drawing board when it had ruled 2-to-1 in favor of the utilities in August 2012. The two judges said essentially that EPA overstepped its authority by requiring power companies to reduce their sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide levels at greater rates than what the law had intended.  
Industry has said that a favorable ruling had worked to the benefit of both reliability and economics. It points to Texas-based Luminant, which says that an outcome favorable to it would allow to keep generating 1,300 megawatts of electricity while also employing 500 workers.  
According to EPA, which petitioned the D.C. Court of Appeal’s ruling to the Supreme Court, the levels of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide would be cut in half under the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule. Collectively, the law would have cost utilities $800 million a year beginning in 2014 — an expense that would have been outweighed by savings in the health field, it adds.  
Making predictions as to what the Supreme Court will do is an imperfect science. It could go either way, with strong implications for the other clean air cases headed its way.  
 




         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/kensilverstein/2013/12/10/the-new-war-between-the-states-centers-on-air-pollution/