         

         


         
             Places  &  Spaces 
         
         | 
     
        12/04/2013 @ 7:54PM
             | 221 views
     
		 Glass Cabinets, Open Shelving Big 2014 Kitchen Trend 




             
         

         
             
	                    
	                 	 
	                     
	                     
	                     
							 Zillow , Contributor 
	                     
             
         
         
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        

   Photo credit: 
  Kabinet King 
   Photo credit: Kabinet King 
 
For years, cabinets have been a place to tuck away dishes and hide boxes of cereal out of view behind solid doors. But according to the  Zillow Digs Home Design Trend Report for 2014 , hiding the goods will be a bit more difficult since the latest kitchen trend is glass-front cabinets or open shelving – easily exposing cupboard contents.  
If you want to go this route,  Kerrie Kelly , the principal designer and owner of Kerrie Kelly Design Lab in Sacramento and a member of  Zillow   Zillow  Digs’ Board of Designers, shares her tips on getting in on this look.  
Match your kitchen style  
While glass-front cabinets or open shelves may sound like design purely for modern spaces, Kelly believes the look works well in any kitchen style.  
“Just be sure to focus on using only one or two materials,” she said. Also, with whatever material you choose, you can be creative in your installation. Painted cabinets with glass fronts and statement knobs would work well in more traditional or country-style kitchen, while sleek, flat-front cabinets will shine in a contemporary space.  
Curate displayed items  
Just as you pick cabinets or shelving to match your kitchen, select accessories and kitchenware that will go with the overall aesthetic as well.  
The open shelving or glass front cabinets are a place to showcase items and, as such, takes time to curate statement pieces or accessories, advised Kelly.  
“Let your kitchenware collection grow with you and your space,” she said.  
Looking for ideas to fill the space? Try spices, olive oil, cookbooks and glass jars filled with oatmeal or dried fruits as a starting point.  

   Photo credit: 
  DetailsADesignFirm 
   Photo credit: DetailsADesignFirm 
 
 
Try DIY  
Updating your cabinets to match these trends could be an easy do-it-yourself- weekend project and “provides great versatility,” said Kelly. Remove the doors on one of your cabinets, and paint or wallpaper the back of the cabinet to create an updated look in the kitchen.  
Add the look elsewhere  
While open shelving and glass-front cabinets are great for the kitchen, they’re also appropriate throughout the entire home.  
“Get creative with shelving units,” Kelly says. Try incorporating “vintage pieces with sleek colors for a chic storage solution in any living space.”  
Check out  Zillow Digs  for inspiration and remodeling cost estimates. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/zillow/2013/12/04/glass-cabinets-open-shelving-big-2014-kitchen-trend/