	 OBR chairman warns over stagnant wage growth 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Chairman of the Office of Budget Responsibility Robert Chote said economic recovery was yet to translate to wages 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Autumn Statement 2013 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 UK growth  hides disappointing news 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Osborne wants  balanced  recovery 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What it means for your finances 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 At-a-glance: Autumn Statement 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Wage growth in the UK is not expected to return to the historic norm of around 2% for a  couple of years , according to the chairman of the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR).  
         Robert Chote was giving evidence at a Treasury Select Committee hearing examining last week s Autumn Statement.  
         He said the economic recovery had not yet lifted living standards. 
         Mr Chote also said rising house prices and falling wages were eroding people s savings. 
         In terms of real earnings, we don t get the sort of 2% a year real growth in wages and salaries that people would have been used to on past historical experience for a couple of years still. 
         So we have consumption rising faster than that, leading to a relatively modest fall in the savings ratio,  Mr Chote said. 
   Weak business investment 
	       When asked about savings, he said the OBR did not make a judgement on what level of saving was best for the economy. 
   
	 Continue reading the main story 	 Start Quote 
In past recoveries you would expect to see robust investment rising as a share of GDP at this stage 
End Quote 
	 Richard Chote 
	 Office of Budget Responsibility 

		        The OBR s chairman said he only expected earnings growth when productivity growth picks up.  
         In last week s Autumn Statement the OBR upgraded its forecast of GDP growth for 2013 to 1.4% from 0.6%.  
         It also revised up its 2014 forecast to 2.4% from 1.8%. 
         Mr Chote said consumer spending and the improving housing market, rather than business investment, was behind the accelerating economy.  
         In past recoveries you would expect to see robust investment rising as a share of GDP at this stage,  he said.  
         One reason that hasn t happened is that firms  expectations of profitability hasn t been high. 
         Mr Chote added weak profitability could be linked to weak productivity.  
         In the absence of productivity growth, you don t get the growth in real incomes and living standards that most people would think of in this context,  he said. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25310367#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa