	 Work begins on 2014 Games shooting range venue 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Scottish shooter Jennifer McIntosh will be among those competing in Angus 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 Glasgow 2014 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Games security provider appointed 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Silversmith to design medals 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 Council in Games tickets giveaway 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 G4S in Commonwealth role 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       Work to transform the Ministry of Defence shooting range in Angus into a venue for the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games has begun. 
         The Barry Buddon range in Carnoustie will host all the shooting events, due to take place from 23 July to 3 August. 
         The site currently serves as an infantry training area with 21 ranges capable of supporting small arms, heavy machine gun and medium mortars.  
         Shooting is one of 17 sports that make up the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games. 
         The MoD range was previously used for the full-bore rifle contest during the Edinburgh Games in 1986. However, all events, including clay target and pistol and small bore, will take place in Angus at next year s games. 
         The MoD said that in the mean time, the ranges would remain fully operational to military users. 
         Glasgow 2014 chief executive, David Grevemberg, said:  We are pleased to have concluded negotiations for the use of Barry Buddon and are grateful to the Ministry of Defence for their support of the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games. 
         Barry Buddon will be a world-class venue for the shooting competition at the games and represents an opportunity for those outside of Glasgow to be part of the celebrations. 
         The planning application to create the additional temporary ranges at Barry Buddon was approved by Angus Council earlier this year. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-tayside-central-25316720#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa