

RIO DE JANEIRO  Nov 28 (Reuters) - A lack of pipelines and
access to drilling equipment as well as unclear environmental
rules restricted bidding at Brazil's latest oil and natural gas
rights auction to less than a third of the 240 on-shore areas
offered, industry officials said on Thursday. 
Brazil's state-run oil company, Petroleo Brasileiro SA, 
also known as Petrobras, dominated bidding at the
sale by taking stakes in 49 of the 72 blocks sold and agreeing
to pay 73 percent of the 165.2 million reais ($71 million) that
the government will get in up-front signing bonuses. Of the other 11 companies that bought blocks, the biggest
winners were Panama's Trayectoria Oil  &  Gas, which bought stakes
in 10 blocks, all of them as operator, and Brazil's Cowan
Petróleo e Gas SA which bought stakes in 10 blocks, two of them
as operator, the rest as a financial partner. Of the 21 companies signed up to bid, only 12 made offers.
The only major foreign company to bid and win a stake in a block
was France's GDF Suez SA. The sale was Brazil's 12th under a concession-sale system
since Petrobras lost its legal exploration and production
monopoly in 1997. It was also the first focused exclusively on
on-shore areas that show more promise for natural gas than oil. "Demand might have been higher were it not for several
factors," said Joao Carlos de Luca, president of the IBP,
Brazil's main oil-industry association. "Not only is there a
lack of pipeline infrastructure, there's a lack of the drilling
rigs, water trucks and other equipment to drill and produce." Some of the areas offered, like blocks in Brazil's Amazon
northwest, are also far from markets and in terrain where laying
pipelines is difficult, he said. The lack of clear regulations
for drilling gas wells and many of the blocks proximity to
national and state parks and Indian reserves also raised risk,
he added. These difficulties led some in the industry to request that
the sale be delayed until the regulatory problems could be
clarified. The areas that attracted the most bids were close to
existing pipelines and cities. 'FRACKING' DEBATE COMES TO BRAZIL Many of the blocks were chosen for sale because they likely
hold so-called "non-conventional" gas reserves. Historically,
gas in Brazil was produced in conjunction with oil and was often
burned off as waste. "Thirty years ago finding only gas in a well was considered
worse than drilling a dry hole" Magda Chambriard,
director-general of the ANP, Brazil's petroleum regulator, told
reporters at the auction held in a Rio de Janeiro beach-front
hotel. But with many of the country's oldest on-shore fields in
sharp decline and Brazilian gas demand growing, "gas-only"
fields are becoming increasingly attractive. Non-conventional gas is frequently trapped in less porous
and permeable rock that contains far less oil compared with
traditional gas reservoirs. As a result, this rock, frequently
shale, requires special techniques, such as extensive drilling
of horizontal wells and the use of large amounts of water and
chemicals under high pressure to fracture the rock, a process
known as fracking, to release the gas. While these processes are decades old and tested, concern
has been growing about the quantities of water needed to extract
the gas and about potential environment threats such as
contamination of aquifers and earthquakes. Brazil's federal Environmental Protection Agency, known as
IBAMA, wrote a policy paper in October arguing for strict limits
and some prohibitions on fracking. While state governments are responsible for most on-shore
oil licenses, a negative view from IBAMA could open up drilling
to legal challenges or have it banned if wells threaten federal
areas such as national parks, beaches and ports. "States do have control, but the IBAMA opinion will have
influence and could cause a lot of problems," said Jose de
Oliveira Junior, energy undersecretary for Brazil's state of
Sergipe. "We were hoping for more interest at the auction and I
think the regulatory issue hurt." Sergipe is one of Brazil's main on-shore oil and gas
producing states and is counting on areas sold at the auction to
replace falling output from older fields. The government though declared the auction a success,
underlining its hope that the sale will eventually spark a
transformation of gas development in Brazil, where most gas
comes from distant offshore fields. By increasing on-shore output close to industrial users the
government hopes to slash energy costs in a way similar to that
has accompanied the shale-gas revolution in the United States. "This auction was designed to plant the seed of a on-shore
natural gas culture in Brazil," ANP's chief Chambriard said. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/T1RTiBLQ5WU/story01.htm