


By Barbara Goldberg NEW YORK  Nov 28 (Reuters) - Americans gathered on Thursday
to celebrate Thanksgiving by stuffing turkeys and braving cold
winds along parade routes, while others started holiday shopping
earlier than ever in a trend criticized for keeping store
employees from their families. With "Black Friday" deals being offered before Thanksgiving
tables were even set on Thursday, critics circulated online
petitions and a handful of franchise owners said they had defied
corporate orders by keeping their stores closed for the holiday. "It bothers me that this country is allowing them to dictate
time away from our families," Holly Cassiano, who refused to
open her Sears franchise in Plymouth, New Hampshire, told CNN. Whole Foods, meanwhile, said its Thanksgiving work shifts
were voluntary for workers and it would compensate staff with
time-and-a-half overtime pay. On a clear, sunny Thanksgiving, nose-diving morning
temperatures after a rainy, snowy evening along the East Coast
made for slick conditions during one of the nation's busiest
travel times. Mother Nature gave New York City a break with winds just
below the level that would have grounded Snoopy and other giant
helium balloons in Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, although
Spiderman limped along after its left arm snagged on a tree
branch and was torn. City regulations prohibit the massive
inflatables from flying when sustained winds top 23 miles per
hour (37 km per hour), and gusts exceed 34 mph (55 kph). With a high-calorie feast looming, some Americans
participated in morning running races called turkey trots. In
Glen Ridge, New Jersey, 3,000 people turned out, with some
wearing turkey hats and headbands decorated with turkey
drumsticks. "On Thanksgiving, I'm grateful I can still run five miles
(eight km) so it's a great way to start the day since I'll be in
the kitchen for the rest of it," said Patty Orsini, 54, a
marketing analyst from Maplewood, New Jersey. Elsewhere, eager shoppers got an early jump on the
pre-Christmas shopping season. In New York, the Lord  &  Taylor
flagship store on Fifth Avenue welcomed shoppers at 9 a.m. EST
(1400 GMT) and around Times Square, most shops, from chains to
specialty stores, conducted business as usual. The Macy's parade, in its 87th year, was expected to
be viewed by some 3 million others along its route through
Manhattan and another 50 million people on television. But this
year it has attracted some controversy. Rocker musician Joan Jett, who is a vegetarian and
animal-rights activist, was moved off the South Dakota tourism
float after cattle ranchers complained, although she remained in
the parade. A SeaWorld float also stayed in the parade despite
an outcry over keeping orcas in captivity by animal-rights group
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. "THANKSGIVUKKAH" In a rare coincidence, Thanksgiving overlaps with the Jewish
holiday of Hanukkah this year, which has sparked creation of the
term Thanksgivukkah and spurred an enterprising 10-year-old boy,
Asher Weintraub of New York, to design a turkey-shaped menorah -
called a Menurkey - for dinner tables. In complicated calculations of the Gregorian and Jewish
calendars, the two holidays will not fall on the same day again
until 2070, according to the Jewish website Chabad.org. Some 43 million people are expected to take trips over the
holiday weekend, according to travel group AAA, despite heavy
rain, wind and snow across parts of the eastern United States
that started on Wednesday and snarled roadway and airport
traffic. In Augusta, Maine, temperatures fell to 26 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 3 degrees Celsius) and in Boston the mercury
dropped to 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Celsius), though the wind
chill made it feel much colder in both places, meteorologists
said on Weather.com IN THE KITCHENS Even after arriving safely, families may find challenges in
the kitchen this holiday. Butterball LLC has reported a shortage
of large, fresh turkeys, company spokeswoman Megan Downey said
in an email message, adding that an investigation was under way. At the White House, where First Lady Michelle Obama is known
for her focus on healthy eating, there was no sign of calorie
cutting on the Thanksgiving menu. The Obamas were set to enjoy a
traditional Thanksgiving meal, including nine different pies:
huckleberry, pecan, sweet potato, peach, apple, pumpkin,
chocolate cream, banana cream and coconut cream. Cooks also prepared honey-baked ham, macaroni and cheese,
sweet potatoes and mashed potatoes, green bean casserole, and
two kinds of stuffing - cornbread and oyster, the White House
said. On the menu for inmates in Arizona under the watch of
controversial Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio was a 56-cent
meal featuring an entree of vegetarian turkey soy casserole. "Hope the inmates give thanks for this special meal being
served in the jails tomorrow," Arpaio said in a holiday meal
preview he tweeted on Wednesday. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/G64U6OMJs_U/story01.htm