

* Santo Versace expects new investor by Christmas 
* Priority for company is to boost growth - Santo Versace * "There is no hurry" to list - Santo Versace MILAN, Nov 28 (Reuters) - A new investor is likely to buy a
minority stake in Italian fashion house Versace by Christmas,
Chairman and core shareholder Santo Versace said on Thursday. The luxury group plans to sell a stake of around 20 percent
ahead of a possible market listing in three to five years. "(The arrival of a new investor) is likely by Christmas but
if it turns out to be Jan. 15 nothing changes. A first step has
been taken, now the others must follow," Santo Versace said. Versace is looking to sell a stake to raise cash to invest
in new shops to take advantage of a growing appetite for luxury
clothes and accessories in emerging markets. Santo Versace said a bourse listing had been considered in
the past and could be an option again in the future. "At present the best thing is to boost growth at a company
which is valued above one billion euros now and could be worth
three times that in three years' time," he said. "There is no hurry. The door remains very much open." Sources close to the deal have told Reuters that potential
buyers for the minority stake include Italy's state-controlled
fund FSI, private equity firms Permira, Ardian, KKR  &  Co
, CCMP Capital, Blackstone, and Bahrain-based
Investcorp. FSI and Ardian declined to comment on Thursday. Blackstone,
CCMP Capital, KKR and Investcorp and Permira could not be
immediately reached for comment. Private equity fund Clessidra is very interested in buying
the stake, its chief executive said earlier this month. The fashion house which features popstar Lady Gaga in its
advertising campaigns is entirely controlled by the family of
late founder Gianni Versace, who was killed in 1997. Gianni's brother Santo has a 30 percent stake, his sister
Donatella holds 20 percent and Donatella's daughter Allegra is
the biggest shareholder with the remaining 50 percent. Goldman Sachs and Banca IMI are advising
Versace on the deal. 

FILED UNDER:   
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/companyNews/~3/IDENC8rqyh8/story01.htm