	 Amazon loses New York sales tax case 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Amazon and Overstock.com lost an appeal to prevent a NY law requiring the firms to pay sales tax 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Amazon testing drones for deliveries 

		 


											




	


	





	 The rise of  tax shaming 

		 


								 
	 
                       The New York state supreme court has rejected an appeal to re-evaluate a state law that requires internet retailers like Amazon and Overstock.com to pay sales tax in the state. 
         The law forces internet retailers to collect taxes on purchases in New York. 
         The case could set a precedent in the US, where an estimated $23bn (£14bn) a year is lost in uncollected sales tax. 
         Amazon argued it shouldn t pay the tax as it doesn t have a physical presence in the state. 
   'Burdens of pain' 
	       Both Amazon and Overstock.com brought separate cases against the law, which were joined into one ruling. 
         Neither company has any distribution facilities in New York. 
         They argued the law violated a 1992 US Supreme Court ruling which orders mail-order retailers to pay sales tax if they have  physical presence  in a state. 
   
   

     Amazon already pays sales tax in states where it has physical distribution centres 
   
       Amazon said New York s regulations  subject internet retailers to significant burdens of pain on serious civil and criminal penalties , according to a court filing. 
         The New York law says sales tax must be collected if a local resident is used to solicit sales online - which Amazon does, as it partners with local businesses to host ads promoting the retailer. 
         A lower court ruled this effectively creates an  in-state sales force . 
         Overstock.com suspended its local affiliate programme once the law was passed to avoid paying sales tax. 
   Continue reading the main story 

 
		
		
	 
		


	
		 
			 
				 
					 Amazon.Com Inc.  
				 
				
			 

			 Last Updated at 02 Dec 2013, 12:51 ET  
		
			 
				 *Chart shows local time 
			 
		
			 

			 
				 
					 
					 
					 
				  
				 
					 
						 price 
						 change 
						 % 
					 
				 
            	 
					 
						 
						393.97
						 
						 				
							 + 
							 +0.35 					
						 
						 		
							 + 
							 +0.09 
						 
					 
					
					
				 
			  
		 
	
	
			


	 

	





       New York state lost an estimated $1.8bn in uncollected sales tax in 2012, according to the National Conference on State Legislatures. 
   "Amazon laws" 
	       The law is part of a series of legislation passed in several US states dubbed  Amazon laws  because they specifically target large online retailers. 
         Amazon has already agreed to pay sales tax in the 16 states in which it does have distribution centres, and has said it supports a federal law which would give states the right to collect sales tax on online retailers with at least $1m in out-of-state sales. 
         However, not all retailers support the agreement, and online auction site eBay has indicated it would oppose any such measure. 
         Globally, Amazon has come under fire for not paying enough tax. 
         Its UK subsidiary paid £2.4m ($3.9m) in corporate taxes last year, despite making sales of £4.3bn, prompting one politician  to call the amount  pathetic . 
         In France, the government  has retaliated  against Amazon for collecting sales tax in Luxembourg, where rates are lower, by imposing restrictions on the amount the firm can discount books and prohibiting free shipping. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25191651#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa