	 UK manufacturing  strongest growth for three years 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     UK manufacturing continues to pick up pace 
   

	 Continue reading the main story 	




		      
	       	          

		
		
						
		 
		
	
						 UK Economy 
		
		

		  	   
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What is quantitative easing? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What is  forward guidance ? 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 GDP explained 

		 

		
	  	  	
	   




	


	





	 What is inflation? 

		 

		
	  	   
  


		
	

	       	      
	
                       The UK s manufacturing sector picked up further in November to its strongest level for almost three years, according to a closely watched survey. 
         The Markit/CIPS Manufacturing Purchasing Managers  Index  (PMI) also showed employment in the sector grew. 
         The news adds to other recent data showing that the UK economy is putting the economic crisis years behind it.  
         The PMI stood at 58.4 in November, its highest since February 2011. A reading over 50 indicates growth.  
         October s figure was revised up to 56.5, adding to the brighter picture for the sector.  
         The employment sub-index for the manufacturing sector rose to 54.5 in November, up from 51.9 in October. 
         Markit economist Rob Dobson said UK manufacturing companies were creating about 5,000 jobs a month.  
         UK manufacturing continued to hit the high notes in November,  he added.  It looks as if the strong recovery in the sector is translating into meaningful job creation.   
         Another sub-index, for new orders, rose to 64.6 from 61.3, its highest level in more than 19 years.  
         A separate survey, by the major manufacturers  organisation EEF and business advisers BDO, also pointed to a brightening mood among manufacturers.  
         It forecast growth in the sector of 2.7% next year, outstripping the 2.4% forecast for overall economic expansion.  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25184750#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa