         

         


         
             Energy 
         
         | 
     
        12/05/2013 @ 9:00PM
             | 9 views
     
		 Has Anyone Noticed New England's Escalating Energy Crisis? 




             
         

     
         
         
         
             

             
                 
                     comments,  called-out
                 
             
                 Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
         
         
         
             Comment Now 
			 




     

     
	 
		 
			 Follow Comments 
		 

		 
			 Following Comments 
		 

		 
			 Unfollow Comments 
		 
	 
	 
	 
     
     
			 
     
     
     
                     

                     

     


		 


	        
Alexis Madrigal, a blogger for The Atlantic,  asked yesterday  if anyone had noticed the massive  energy  transformation that took place in New York City about a month ago?  
The transformation that Madrigal is alluding to is a clutch of natural gas pipeline expansion projects that came online in and around New York City in early November.  
These projects and several more like them in the previous three years have expanded the total deliverability of natural gas into New York by about one third.  
The cumulative impact is that  natural gas  future prices for January and February of 2014 are lower in New York City than Louisiana.  
While the national news media may have missed this story, it has also missed a related and arguably more important story about the lack of similar pipeline expansions in New England.  
Natural gas flows into New England from the south via the Tennessee Gas Pipeline and the Algonquin Gas Transmission. Last winter, these pipelines were operating at near or full capacity nearly every day. Unlike New York and New Jersey, the pipelines transporting gas into New England have not expanded in years and are not scheduled to expand until 2016 at the earliest.  
The result is an escalating energy crisis in New England.  
Although the northeast has become the largest natural gas producing region in the United States, New England currently has the nation’s highest natural gas prices.  
Pipeline congestion is the culprit. Natural gas pipeline capacity in New England costs significantly more than the natural gas commodity.  
Last winter, the price of natural gas in New England spiked above $32 per  MMBtu  on several occasions, compared to about $4 per MMBtu in other regions. These spikes pushed the average price for wholesale electric power in New England during the month of February higher than any prior month on record – $121 per megawatt hour (MWh).  
One MMBtu equals one million British Thermal Units.  
In New England, natural gas futures prices for January 2014 at Algonquin City gates are nearly $12 per MMBtu, up more than $5.00 per MMBtu from last winter.  
Given the close relationship between natural gas and electricity prices, winter electricity peak futures prices in New England increased by 52% from last winter, to $100 per MWh.  
If the last winter is any indication of what will happen this winter, those futures prices may prove be too conservative. We’ll know if they are in a few weeks. 



         
         
http://www.forbes.com/sites/williampentland/2013/12/05/has-anyone-noticed-new-englands-escalating-energy-crisis/