	 Eurozone factory orders up for fifth consecutive month 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Eurozone factory orders rose for a fifth consecutive month in November 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Eurozone business activity slows 

		 


											




	


	





	 Eurozone factory orders rise again 

		 


											




	


	





	 Eurozone August factory orders rise 

		 


											 
	 
                       Eurozone factory orders rose for a fifth consecutive month in November, with activity accelerating at its fastest pace for more than two years, according to a survey. 
         France was the only country out of the 17 that use the euro to report faster declines in both output and new orders.  
         The  Markit Manufacturing Purchasing Managers  Index (PMI)  stood at 51.6 in November, up from 51.3 in October. 
         Any reading of above 50 suggests expansion. 
         Markit cautioned that the rate of growth was still  modest , with the most promising recovery signs confined to northern eurozone countries such as Germany and the Netherlands. 
         There s still a lot to worry about in terms of the health of the eurozone economy,  said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit.  
         Mr Williamson said France was  a big concern , and noted that employment in manufacturing across the eurozone was continuing to fall.  
         Any substantial improvement to the region s record unemployment situation still seems frustratingly far off,  Mr Williamson added.  
         France s PMI plummeted to a five-month low of 48.4 from 49.1, marking its 21st month of contraction.  
         Spain s manufacturing activity also shrank in November, despite expanding for the previous three months.  
         In Greece, which has been in recession for six years, manufacturing activity continued to shrink, but at the slowest pace since 2009.  
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25181537#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa