	 GrainCorp chief executive quits after takeover blocked 

     
         
 
    
    
		
         
   

     Ms Watkins said she had planned to leave the firm at the completion of the takeover deal 
   
	 
		 Continue reading the main story 		 Related Stories 
		 
						




	


	





	 Australia blocks GrainCorp takeover 

		 


											




	


	





	 Salad trafficking rings and the business of food 

		 


											




		


	





	 India to tackle rising food prices  Watch 

		 


								 
	 
                       The chief executive of GrainCorp, Alison Watkins, has quit just days after Australia blocked a takeover bid for the company. 
         US conglomerate Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) had offered $3.4bn ($3.1bn; £1.9bn) to take over the firm. 
         But treasurer Joe Hockey blocked the deal, saying an acquisition  would not be in our national interest .   
         Ms Watkins said she had already planned to  leave the company at the time control passed over to ADM . 
         I have carefully weighed my options over the past two days,  Ms Watkins said. 
         Given last week s unexpected developments, I feel it is in the best interests of GrainCorp, our people and customers that I move on now and allow the board to find new leadership to take the business forward into its new phase. 
         GrainCorp is Australia s biggest grain merchant. ADM already owns about 20% of the firm. 
         As he blocked the takeover bid, Mr Hockey was quoted as saying by the Australian Broadcast Corporation that  now is not the right time for a 100% foreign acquisition of this key Australian business . 
         He said the industry was  going through transition  and it was not the right time to have the  major players foreign-owned . 
         GrainCorp s shares fell 3.5% in Sydney on Monday on the news of Ms Watkins leaving the firm. 
  

	 
  
   
 	 
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-25181522#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa